Keyboard and Mouse Bindings
---------------------------

Zircon has lots, of key bindings and, of course, you can add your own -
both globally and on a per channel basis.

Quite a few of these bindings require you to use the Meta key in 
conjunction with other keys. If you dont know what your Meta key is then
you can find out (under X11) using the program xmodmap.

Keyboard bindings for channels
------------------------------

Meta-b		Start/finish bold
Meta-o		Finish any/all of bold, underlineor invert
Meta-u		Start/finish underlining
Meta-v		Start/finish inverse video

Meta-s		Insert the value set in smiley (Default = :-) )
Shift-Meta-s	Insert the value set in scowl (default = :-( )
Control-meta-s	Insert the value set in wink (Default = :-;)

Meta-q		Sends the line as a message to the nick which appears
		at the start of the line.

Control-p
Up		Move backwards through the history

Control-n
Down		Move forwards through the history

Control-u	Deletes the line
Control-w	Deletes the previous word


Return		Send the line to the channel

Shift-Return	Send the line as an action. This is a rotten choice for
		a binding but it was the origianl one! You can alter it
		in your preferecnes file by saying, for example :

		    set zircon(action) KP_Enter

		KP_Enter is the Keypad Enter key and is my personal
		choice - you an however put any binding you like here.

Control-Return	Sends the line as a notice to the channel.

Escape		Hitting the escape key when typing in a channel entry
		will bring up a palette that lets you select from any
		of the characters in your current typeface. This lets
		you send characters that may not be on your keyboard.

Meta-Return	If you hit Meta-Return and your line begines with a
		/ character, then Zircon interprets the line as an ircII
		style command. Note that not all the ircII command set is
		supported at the moment. You can reverse the meaning of
		Return and Meta-Return by adding this line to your
		preferences file :

		   set zircon(ircIImode) 1 

Selection Related stuff
-----------------------

When you have a selection in the channel window

Meta-f		Does a UNIX-style finger on the user named
Meta-j		Joins the named channel
Meta-m		Opens a message window for the user named
Meta-w		Does a WHOIS on the user named
Shift-Meta-w	Does a WHO on the user named

Frivolous stuff...
------------------

Shift-Meta-Return	Sends the line reversed
Control-Meta-Return	Sends the line rot13'd
Control-c		Sends the line as morse code

Mouse Magic
-----------

Double click :

Button-2		Opens a message window the person who sent the line that
			the click was over.
Shift-Button-2		Does a WHO on the person sent the line
Control-Button-2	Does a Unix finger on the person who sent the line

Button-3		Attempts to locate a URL under the mouse and
			start up/communciate with your web browser.
			(This facility will be much improved in a future
			release so dont start to rely on it in its present
			form..., in fact I am not even going to tell you
			how to set it up!)
