This file is part of  Xcolorsel, a multipurpose viewer  for X11 rgb.txt files.
                    Copyright (C) 1993, 1994 Michael Weller

Please  note that this  software was developed  in ANSI-C (using GNU-cc) under
X11R5. It  won't compile  under "standard" K&R C  and I don't  know if it will
compile  under X11R4 or earlier  (if your  computer vendor can't provide X11R5
and an ANSI-C compiler kick his ass and order real workstations next time ;-))
Further patches  were done  under X11R6.  Thus it should work  under X11R5 and
X11R6 with out problems.

Also note  that it is distributed  under the GNU-Copyright.  See 00-Readme and
01-COPYING for details.

The color compare code assumes that long integers are of 32 bit size.  If this
doesn't hold on your machine color searching will probably not work correctly.

The native  environment  for  this tool  is linux  together with  Xfree86-3.1.
However it should easily  run on any X11R5/R6  with ANSI-C. Installation is as
easy as it could be:

1 - Make a makefile for your system out of the Imakefile. This is usually done
    by calling "xmkmf" out of the xcolorsel directory.
    Actually you should do a "make depend" to add all dependencies afterwards.

2 - A few options can be set/changed  in config.h. So have a  look at it.  You
    won't need to change anything herein usually.

3 - If  you use the Xaw3d Widgets  you may like to change Xcolorsel-color.ad as
    suggested  by  the  comments  in it.  The  changes  are  only  for  better
    appearance of xcolorsel. There is no real need to change this file.

4 - Compile  everything  with  a simple "make".  (If you are  using linux with
    Xfree86-3.1 (or higher)  and libc4.5.26 (or higher) you can omit this step
    as there is already a Xcolorsel binary supplied (compiled with gcc-2.5.8).
    If you are doing something special and  want only partial recompiles after
    you changed something, or want ensure clean recompiles without make clean,
    make depend after xmkmf but before the other makes will be handy.

    Note: some  distributions that are not  primarily intended for linux users
    do not include a precompiled binary.

5 - If you have superuser access a  "make install" will put every  file in the
    appropriate  directories.  An  additional  "make  install.man"  will  also
    install the provided online manual page.

Warning! If you use a Sun,  set a CC to gcc before  trying to compile anything.
Either putting  this into the Imakefile  or a make CC=gcc should be sufficient.

Exceptions / Comments:

- If  you  don't  have  xmkmf,  imake,  etc. and  can't  use  Imakefile,  then
  cp R?.generic.makefile to Makefile and give it a try. Note that  there is no
  make install  at all in this  generic makefile.  Choose the generic makefile
  suited for your X11 release.

- If  make install  fails,  you don't  trust me,  or have  to use  the generic
  makefile,  put xcolorsel in  any directory in your executable search path  (I
  prefer /usr/bin/X11), xcolorsel.man  as xcolorsel.1 in /usr/man/man1 (or maybe
  as xcolorsel.l in /usr/man/manl). Place Xcolorsel-color.ad and Xcolorsel.ad w/o
  the   ".ad"   extension    in   your    app-defaults   directory    (usually
  /usr/lib/X11/app-defaults  and  (if you want  to have  the online help  in a
  window too) Xcolorsel.help in /usr/lib/X11)

- If  Xcolorsel  has problems  finding  its helpfile  set the Xcolorsel.helpFile
  resource in Xcolorsel.ad or #define HELPFILE in config.h

- The  Xcolorsel-color  app-default is choosen when the *Customization resource
  is set to -color.  It contains (UGLY!!)  color definitions and then includes
  the definitions from Xcolorsel.
  Usually  *Customization  is set in /usr/lib/X11/xinit/.Xresources, s.t. that
  all applications of all users know if this server supports color or not.

- The resource definitions from Xcolorsel-color.ad and Xcolorsel.ad are compiled
  into  the  executable  and  are used  when no  app-default  can be loaded. The
  definitions from  Xcolorsel-color.ad are used  only when -color  is given as a
  parameter to xcolorsel.  So  there is no  need to use/install  the application
  default files  or use  an own .Xdefaults  at all  (maybe helpful if you aren't
  root!) 

- The  icon/cursor  definitions in biglens & biglensMask, lens & lensMask, and
  xcslicon  are only needed at compile time,  s.t. there is no need to install
  them anywhere.  Of course if you want to use/set them via the resource files
  of  Xcolorsel  (or any  other Xapplication)  you will have to  copy them into
  /usr/include/X11/bitmaps.  Also note the BUGS section in xcolorsel's man-page
  or Xcolorsel.help.

- rgb.txt is a silly example rgb.txt file that can of course be displayed with
  Xcolorsel.
