To install

1) unpack the archive (tar xzf taper-6.7.4.tar.gz)
2) edit Makefile 
	There are several options - read the taper.txt for details
	about which ones to set etc..

	Also, change the directories if you want to install in
	different directories
3) do a 'make clean; make all'
     (you can ignore warnings when compiling the compress code)
   make sure you have the forms library of ncurses installed - see
     the FAQ for further details
4) do a 'make install' to install files in correct locations
   make sure that /sbin is on your path (or wherever you
     install taper)
5) to start taper:
    
       taper -T [tape_type]
       
   [tape_type] = zftape or ftape or scsi or file or removable


People using libc-5.3.12 should note that taper (and quite a few
other applications) does not like this release and can seg fault
in odd places. The solution is to downgrade to libc-5.2.18 or
try and use the latest binutils (2.6.0.14) [this may not work].


6) to make a statically linked version of taper for use in emergency
   rescue disks, do 'make taper-static' and the resulting file 
   (taper-static) will not require any libraries to be on-line when
   running.

READ THIS!!!!!!!!!!!!
---------------------
I know that very few of you will read the full documentation. That
is fine as long as taper works for you. 

Howver, if you run into problems, please read the documentation before
firing off your e-mail editor and asking me. A lot of your questions
will be answered in the relatively short FAQ, saving you from having
to read the entire documentation.

I do not mind receiving mail - in fact, a lot of suggestions, bug
fixes, improvements came from people mailing me - but only
after you have read the docs and not found the solution in them.

If you find that some aspect of the documentation is not clear,
by all means, e-mail me a tell me and I'll try and clarify it
in a later version.

If you have a bug to report, please read the BUGS file for
the sort of information I need.


Yusuf
5AUG96



$Id: INSTALL.raw,v 1.1 1996/07/27 20:42:01 yusuf Exp $	
