Welcome to GMOD, a music module player for Linux and the Gravis Ultrasound
card.

The following module formats are supported:
	MOD (various versions)
	8 channel 669
	MultiTracker (MTM)
	ScreamTracker III (S3M)
	UltraTracker (ULT)
	FastTracker (XM)

General Requirements:

1) Linux kernel configured with the GUS sequencer driver.  The driver
	must be version 3.0 or greater (do cat /dev/sndstat to check).  The
	driver must be configured with MIDI interface support.  The
	Ultrasound project's driver does not work properly with xgmod and
	gmod.

2) A GUS card

Additional Requirements to compile the source with X support:

1) libqt 0.99 or greater.  For more information on this library, check out
	http://www.troll.no 

4) XFree 3.1 or greater.  XFree 2.1 may also work.

Additional Requirements to use the precompiled xgmod binary:

1) XFree 3.1 or greater

3) libc 5.4.7 or greater shared library

4) libg++/libstdc++ 27.2.1 or greater shared libraries

Additional Requirements to use the precompiled gmod binary:

1) libc 5.4.7 or greater.

2) libg++/libstdc++ 27.2.1 or greater.

3) ncurses 4.0 shared library


COMPILING:

Two Makefiles are included with this package.  Use "Makefile" to produce
xgmod (gmod with an X interface), or use "Makefile.gmod" to produce gmod
(gmod without the X interface).  Edit the "DEFINES" and "LIBS" lines in
each file to match your system setup and preferences.  Always do 'make clean'
before compiling a new version to remove any old object files.

The contrib directory contains contributed patches which may be applied before
compiling.  Use them at your own risk.

INSTALLATION:

Doing 'make install' will compile and install the binaries in the location
specified in the makefile.
- OR -
Copy/move the binaries to whatever directory you normally keep your
executables in.

gmod and Xgmod may be safely SUID root or SGID root if the permissions of
the sequencer require it.

For more information, refer to the man pages (gmod.1 and xgmod.1) and
ChangeLog.  Unfortunately, the man pages are currently somewhat out of date.

Please send any comments, suggestions, etc. regarding this version to me,
Andrew J. Robinson (arobinso@nyx.net).  There is also a Xgmod WWW page
available through http://www.nyx.net/~arobinso.
