net-tools-1.1.95

The net-tools tools are mostly from the work of Fred Van Kempen. Nevertheless
these tools have been modified by me Alan Cox <A.Cox@swansea.ac.uk> and
others so report bugs to me not Fred. They are currently derived from
Fred's net-032 and net-040 releases. The plipconfig program is seperately
contributed by John Paul Morrison.

For this release I've chainsawed out all the old setup stuff. This is now
what I want it to be purely a tools upgrade.

Fixed by Jean-Michel VANSTEENE (J.M.Vansteene@frcl.bull.fr) for localization.
net-tools aims to be available in your language. (Please contact Alan Cox
<A.Cox@swansea.ac.uk> if nettools is not yet translated into your language
and you want to add your contribution to its translation.
If you don't know whether NLS is supported on your system or not, see
/usr/include/locale.h. If it exists,  there is every chance that NLS is
supported. Set LANG environment variable accordingly before installation.

Changes for net-tools-1.1.27

	Merged the changes FvK made to his 'net040' stuff - notably
	arp -f now works.

	Added output of the various DMA/Memory address options now
	that ifmap is supported. Drivers supporting ifmap can be configured
	using ifconfig's setup for irq and I/O address. Currently this means
	PLIP, but I hope more will be added. Either that or it will get
	taken out as command line modules work. Watch this space.

	Route has an mss keyword that allows you to set the tcp mss on
	a given route, and a window keyword that allows you to 'clamp'
	windows. This is useful for amateur radio and also slow network
	drivers like the DE600 or 3c501 (use 1024-2048 or so for these)

	Added a modified version of John Paul Morrison's plipconfig program.
	I wrote my own but his was nicer!

	Changed naming scheme to avoid confusion about tools/kernel versions
	and with FvK's net-040 code.

Changes for net-tools-1.1.29

	Plipconfig manual page from John Paul Morrison.
	Fix for netstat -r.
	Couple of minor bug fixes.

Changes for net-tools-1.1.37

	Added some ':''s (Suggested by Arnt Gulbrandsen)
	Network group names (Mark Bowyer <mark@lindhard.demon.co.uk>)
	QMagic fix
	New hostname/dnsdomain commands (see README.hostname)

Changes for net-tools-1.1.46

	Small bug fix to the dnsdomainname command (Edvard Tuinder)
	Fix to slight accident with the plipconfig man page (Florian La Roche)
	General cleanup (Paul Sitz)
	slattach fix (Mark Weaver)

Changes for net-tools-1.1.51

	Socket leak in netstat -i -c fixed (Riku Meskanen)
	Install the rarp program properly (Alec Muffett)
	Route has a nasty assumption about the lowest byte and networks
					  (Walter Smith)

Changes for net-tools-1.1.56

	Updated/fixed hostname/dnsdomainname (Peter Tobias)
	Proxy Arp netmask (Andrew Tridgell)
	
Changes for net-tools-1.1.79

	Makefile removes *~
	Arcnet support added (Alan Cox - I couldn't find the original saved one 8))
	Ipfw program added merged from assorted ipfw's [Several authors]
	plipconfig cleanups (Niibe Yutaka)
	slattach changes (George Shearer)
	slattach changes & man page changes (Miquel van Smoorenburg)
	netstat/netstat man page updated (Alan Cox)

Changes for net-tools-1.1.91	[Only released internally]

	Support the newer firewall code. Lots more options. (Alan Cox)
	ifconfig displays other protocols - moving towards proper
		multiprotocol support. (Alan Cox)
	slattach allows 3 wire links (Yossi Gottlieb)

Changes for net-tools-1.1.92
	
	CLOSING reported right (Gerhard Koerting)
	rxq-- removed (__Everyone__)
	ipfw man page from FreeBSD (c/o Peter Tobias)
	Updated ipfw to match Urgen's new ipfw code in FreeBSD (Alan Cox)
	Found the original ARCnet patch and switched to it. (Avery Pennarun)

Changes for net-tools-1.1.95

	Plipconfig fixed
