
This afio version is based on a Linux port of afio 2.3.  Since the
original port, significant functionality has been added and some bugs
were removed.  While primarily intended for use under Linux, this code
should be portable to other UNIX versions.  As far as I know, there
has been no afio development beyond 2.3 outside the Linux community.
Thus, it should be safe to advertise ports of this code to other UNIX
versions as ports of afio version 2.4.1.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The code in this archive compiles under Linux.

You will have to tweak the makefile to compile it on other platforms.

If you make a `clean' port of this code, meaning that you add ifdefs
to the source files and `uncomment this for %s' lines to the makefile,
you may want to send diffs to me (koen@win.tue.nl) so that I can
merge them with the next afio version.  If you encounter any POSIX
compatibility problems, please report them.

Some potential porting problems:

1) Availability of fnmatch(), see the makefile.

2) Changing the makefile to work with your make and C compiler.

3) Making floppy verify work on your unix flavor.

The code in afio.c should be highly portable.  However I can not
guarantee it to keep working if changes are made to the defines in the
makefile.  The code in the other .c files was written on a Linux
machine for gcc, and assumes a posixy environment.  I have not tried
it on other machines but on most modern unixes it should compile. I
(koen@win.tue.nl) would like to hear about (un)successful ports
to other machines.

Some of the afio code is a horrible mess, making incremental changes
very difficult.  A complete rewrite of the floppy disk interfacing
code is probably needed if extensions are to be added.  At the moment
afio is (afaik) the only fault tolerant compressing archiver program
available, but it probably has some bugs lurking in it. Because of
this afio is not an optimal solution. I hope that afio will be
replaced by a compressing version of gnu cpio or by cpio combined with
with a fault tolerant compression backend (probably based on a gzip
library) in the future.


Note for SCO porters from Karel Kubat, karel@icce.rug.nl:

  Please read the makefile about the changes needed for fnmatch().
  
  You may want to change the -DDEFFMTCMD value in the makefile.

  If you encounter any other options which may need changing, please mail me 
  at karel@icce.rug.nl. I'm not the maintainer of afio for SCO platforms, but 
  I'd like to know if you come across anything spectacular.


