Complete content of the FSP package:
--------------------------------------------------
   ChangeLog	   A list of all the changes made to the source code
		   seperated by version.
   FILES	   This list.
   INFO		   Information about the purpose of FSP
   INSTALL	   Installation instructions for FSP
   MACHINES	   A list of known architectures and compilers for which
		   this code compiles.
   Makefile	   Distributed makefile.
   Makefile.in	   input file for building makefile from configure script.
   aclocal.m4	   Gnu M4 macros specific to configuring FSP
   bin/		   Directory for storing binaries, empty.
   bsd_src/        Directory containing additional sources derived from
                   those in public archive on uunet.uu.net. Most sources
                   are modified to deal with FSP or some architectures.
    Makefile       Unix Makefile for compiling the .
    Makefile.in	   input file for building makefile from configure script.
    cmp.c          BSD compare routines.
    find.c	   Source for BSD find.
    fnmatch.c	   filename matching functions for BSD find.
    function.c	   BSD find function parser.
    glob.c         modified BSD globbing routine.
    ls.c           Modified ls source.
    operator.c	   operator parsing code for BSD find.
    option.c	   option parsing for BSD find.
    print.c        Directory print routines, modified for VMS.
    random.c       BSD random/srandom functions.
    util.c         additional util routines for ls.
   client/	   Code common to all clients
    Makefile	   Unix Makefile for compiling the client libraries.
    Makefile.in	   input file for building makefile from configure script.
    lib.c          Core routines of the client library.
    lock.c         Simple file locking code to do client multi-plexing.
    util.c         Supplementry routines of the client library.
   clients/	   Code for the standalone and merged client versions
    Makefile	   Unix Makefile for building, and installing the clients.
    Makefile.in	   input file for building makefile from configure script.
    fcatcmd.c      These compiles into individual client utilities.
    fcdcmd.c       Those with a "cmd" in their name will require
    fducmd.c       shell alias wrappers either because they do their own
    ffindcmdc      file globbing on argv based on directory information
    fgetcmd.c      gotten from the server or because the modify the
    fgrabcmd.c     environment variables (fcdcmd and fhostcmd)
    fhostcmd.c
    flscmd.c        
    fmkdir.c       
    fprocmd.c      
    fput.c         
    frmcmd.c       
    frmdircmd.c    
    fver.c         
    merge.c        This file is used to call the other client programs
	           when program merging option is used.  Rather than
		   compiling into individual client utility programs,
		   users may opt to build a single program which
		   contains all client funtionalities, which are to
		   be distinguished at run time by the name used to
		   activate the program.  Significant space saving can
		   be achieved on some machines. 
   common/	   Directory containing code used in both server and clients
    Makefile	   Unix makefile for building the common library.
    Makefile.in	   input file for building makefile from configure script.
    strdup.c	   Unix strdup function.
    udp_io.c       Lowest level routines that deal with the unix inet
                   sockets. Some changes might be needed to get it
                   running with other network implementations.
   config.status   GNU autoconf that will be regenerated every time configure
		   is run. It is used to regenerate the same configuration as
		   before.
   configure	   SH script generated by GNU autoconf from configure.in used
		   to test certain parameters of the operating system in order
		   to enable compilation with the minimum of human
		   intervention.
   configure.in	   Input script to autoconf used to generate configure.
   contrib/	   Directory containing user contributed files and FSP code.
		   This code is not supported by the FSP maintainer but is
		   placed here as a courtesy to FSP users.
    admin/	   Directory containing files written by JT Traub in order
		   to help automate some of the tasks of FSP site admins.
    fspadmin/	   Directory contaning admin files created by Ruben Oleson.
    fspshell/      FSP shell front end created by Ruben Oleson.
    setup/	   FSP setup script created by Robert Martin-Legene
   descrip.mms	   VAX/VMS mms makefile.
   example.conf	   An example fspd.conf file suitable for copying and editing.
   include/	   Directory containing all include files.
    bsd_extern.h   External definitions for all the functions from bsd_src dir.
    c_extern.h     External definitions for all the functions from client dir.
    client_conf.h  Client options that need to be manually configured.
    client_def.h   Definition for the client code.
    co_extern.h	   External definitions for all the functions from common dir.
    common_def.h   Definitions common to both the server code and the
                   client code.
    find.h	   definitions for the BSD find command.
    ls.h           definitions for the BSD ls command.
    my-string.h	   Headerfile to avoid some bogus redefinitions of strings.
    proto.h	   function prototyping headers.
    s_extern.h     External definitions for all the functions from server dir. 
    server_conf.h  Server options that need to be manually configured.
    server_def.h   Definitions for the server code.
    tweak.h        System dependent configurations options.  This file will
		   be automatically generated from tweak.h.in when the
		   configure script is run.
    tweak.h.in	   input file to configure script used to generate tweak.h
    version.h	   header file containing FSP version information.
    vms/	   VMS specific include files
      dirent.h     BSD dirent.h headerfile, modified for VMS.
      grp.h        BSD grp.h headerfile, modified for VMS.
      param.h      BSD param.h headerfile, modified for VMS.
      pwd.h        BSD pwd.h headerfile, modified for VMS.
      socket.h     UCX socket.h, seems to be diff. on Multinet systems.
      stat.h       UCX stat.h, for Multinet systems which don't have it.
      time.h       BSD time.h headerfile, modified for VMS.
      tweak.h      System dependent configuration options.
      types.h      BSD types.h headerfile, modified for VMS.
      utmp.h       BSD utmp.h headerfile, modified for VMS.
   man/		   Manual pages for the FSP clients/server.
    Makefile	   Unix makefile for installing the man pages in the proper
		   place.
    man1/	   Files that belong in subsection 1 of the man heirarchy.
     fcat.1
     fcatcmd.1
     fcd.1
     fcdcmd.1
     fdu.1
     fducmd.1
     ffind.1
     ffindcmd.1
     fget.1
     fgetcmd.1
     fgrab.1
     fgrabcmd.1
     fhost.1
     fhostcmd.1
     fls.1
     flscmd.1
     fmkdir.1
     fpro.1
     fprocmd.1
     fput.1
     frm.1
     frmcmd.1
     frmdir.1
     frmdircmd.1
     fspd.1
     fver.1
    man5/	   Files that belong in subsection 5 of the man heirarchy.
     fsp_prof.5
   server/	   Files needed to compile the FSPD server
    Makefile       Unix Makefile for compiling the server.
    conf.c         fspd configuration file reading routines. 
    file.c         Server routines for file i/o.
    filecache.c    fp-caching routines.
    host.c         Server routines for maintaining client database.
    lib.c          Server routines for inet socket i/o.
    main.c         Server main routine and dispatch loop.
   setup           CSH script for initializing FSP (Unix).
   vms/            VMS installation and documentation directory.
    Bugs.VMS       Known bugs as of FSP 2.7.0
    Install.VMS    Textfile about VMS-fsp, installation, etc.
    VMS.ChangeLog  Changes from VMS-FSP V2.6.3 up to V2.7.0.
    compfspd.com   DCL compiler file for server_main.
    compile.com    DCL compiler file, adapted from VMS-IRC-Client DCL MAKE
                   file, Copyright 1990 by Very Mad Students, University
                   of Karlsruhe, FRG
    fsp.com        DCL script to solve some typical CSH functions.
    fspd.conf      Sample server configuration file for VMS.
    link.com       DCL linker file for all executables.
    makeclient.com DCL makefile for all FSP clients.
    makemerge.com  DCL makefile for the FSP-merge clients.
    makeserver.com DCL makefile for the FSP server.
    mulshare.opt   Linker options file for Multinet/UCX implementations.
    resubfsp.com   Sample DCL file to start the fspd as a batch process.
    runfspd.com    Sample DCL file to start the fspd as a detached process.
    setup.com      Sample DCL FSP initialization script.
    setupmerge.com Sample DCL FSP-merge initialization script.
    tgvshare.opt   Linker options file for Multinet/TGV implementations.
    ucx$ipc.olb    UCX Linker library for Multinet/UCX systems.
    ucxshare.opt   Linker options file for UCX/TCP implementations.
   vms_src/        Directory in which the Unix emulation routines for VMS
                   are located.
    convpath.c     Unix to VMS pathconversion routines.
    getopt.c       getopt.c, modified for VMS, 12-AUG-1992, tmk
    miscvms.c      miscellaneous unix emulation routines, original from
                   XV-package, 1-NOV-1990 GJC@MITECH.COM
    vmsmain.c      new main() to solve the 'arguments conversion to uppercase'
                   problem.
    vmsreaddir.c   directory emulation routines, original from XV-package,
                   written by Rich $alz, <rsalz@bbn.com> in August, 1990.
