This is the source directory for version 7.0 of Xconq, a graphical
multi-player strategy game and game design system.  This distribution
includes interfaces for X11, curses, and Macintosh(tm).

Xconq is not just a single game, but a game authoring system that you
can use to build all kinds of multi-player simulations.  The manual
explains how to do this (in great detail).  The library directory
contains a large assortment of predefined game modules as well.

The file INSTALL describes how to get Xconq running on your system.
Xconq has been tested in a wide variety of systems and environments.
It is designed to be independent of any particular graphical interface
system, although porting to a new interface will involve writing a lot
of code.  Please contact me about any portability problems.

Xconq is free software, and is licensed under the Gnu Public License,
version 2; see the file COPYING for more details.

Since Xconq is free, you can copy it, hack on it, and redistribute the
hacked version as you like; but PLEASE identify clearly any changes
you make to an "official" release - this will be of immeasurable help
to me, other Xconq hackers, and users.  I always enjoy hearing about
and seeing any improvements, fixes, or suggestions, and will try to
incorporate the best ones into future versions of Xconq.


						Stan Shebs
						shebs@cygnus.com


Thanks to the many Xconq players and hackers around the net who have
contributed literally hundreds of suggestions, fixes, and improvements.
The manual includes more detailed acknowledgments.

GUIDE TO SUBDIRECTORIES:

"lib" contains the game designs and images.

"doc" contains the Xconq manual and supporting documentation.

"kernel" contains the source code for the kernel, which is the part of
Xconq shared by all interfaces.
 
"mac" contains the source code specific to the Mac interface.

"x11" contains the source code specific to the X11 interface.

"curses" contains the source code specific to the curses interface.

"SelFile" contains a file selection dialog for X11 programs.

"Ad2C" contains a tool to generate fallback resources for X11 programs.

"libcurses" contains a copy of a DOS & Mac implementation of curses.

"config" includes platform-specific configuration fragments.

"misc" contains scripts that do a partial conversions of 5.x period
and other files to 7.0 game designs.

"test" includes scripts and game modules oriented towards testing.
The test scripts should be run after hacking on anything in the
"kernel" directory (this is important).

The directories "lib-mac" and "lib-x11", if they are present, contain
optional library files for Mac and X11 versions, respectively.
