
To install, enter just enter the command make.
You will be prompted for the installation locations.

If the binary doesn't work, delete it and re-compile.

NOTE:  The rexec daemon (in.rexecd) installed with the
Red Hat 4.1 distribution doesn't seem to work all that well--
it does not shutdown the socket when the remote process exits,
so the client hangs indefinitely. 

Sometimes, problems may be due to the daemon, not the client.

Send me (sadd@msc.cornell.edu) any problems with
installation or the code.

	Mike Sadd


Change Log:

Feb. 24, 1997:  (Version 1.3)
		
		Mostly bug fixes for features introduced in 1.2.  
		Fortunately, 1.2 has not been distributed widely.

                Enabled signal handling only after the rexec
                subroutine returns.  Once again, changed signal handling
                to deal with buggy daemons--all signals are echoed,
                but remain raised locally.  This means that the local
                rexec process will die with a CNTRL-C, even if the 
                remote wouldn't.  This is intended to give the user an
                out if the remote daemon refuses to shut down its end
                of the socket.  

                Added the -b option if the user wishes for the command 
                to behave similarly to rsh(1).  
        
                Fixed a bug in echo_fd(), which lost data if an interrupt was
                received while writing.  

                Rexec now allows the usage
			rexec hostname -l username
		as used with some rsh(1) commands.

Feb. 14, 1997:  (Version 1.2)

                Fixed much of the code related to signal handling.
                Except for SIGTSTP, signals are simply echoed; (rexec
                waits for the remote command to drop its standard out.)-changed
									2/24/97
                SIGTSTP is echoed to the remote command, then suspends
                local execution.  Remote execution should also be
                suspended if it uses the same decimal codes for 
                signals.

                Orange Gopher (2/10/97) and Johannes Plass 
                (plass@dipmza.physik.uni-mainz.de, Oct. 17 1996),
                both provided me with modified codes which implemented
                new command line switches.  At their suggestion I
                added the -l and -p switch, and the environmental
                variables REXEC_USER and REXEC_PASS.  These may be
                considered a security risk, but no one is being forced
                to use them :) By own practice is to use
                no command line switches, then set up a .netrc
                file on my single user machine, or be happy with
                being prompted by the rexec(3) routine for the info.

                Johannes also pointed out how to make getopt conform
                to POSIX.

		Cleaned up the man page to conform to Linux standards.


Sept. 16, 1996:  Added code to allow rexec to pass signals to 
		 the remote process. (Version 1.1)

Sept. 12, 1996:  Original code (Version 1)

