
README for TkDesk 1.0b4                                           21.12.96
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

TkDesk - a desktop and file manager for UNIX and X11
by Christian Bolik (Christian.Bolik@Mainz.netsurf.de)


Changes since 1.0b3:

   o  Updated to work with Tcl 7.6 and Tk 4.2.
   o  There is now a "Quick Start Guide" available from inside TkDesk.
   o  Some (backward-compatible) configuration changes and additions.
   o  Many bug fixes. In fact, this release is mainly a bug fix release. 
   o  Plus LOTS of smaller changes.  Make sure you don't miss any by
      taking a look at the CHANGES file!

      
Mailing List:

   Thanks to Chris Sterritt, there is a mailing list dedicated to
   TkDesk: Send mail to majordomo@mrj.com with an empty subject line
   and "subscribe tkdesk" as the message body to join the list.  This
   list is meant to provide an open forum to both novice and experienced
   TkDesk users, so don't hesitate to ask there for help if you have
   problems with installing or using TkDesk.  In fact, I strongly
   encourage you to join the list.  You'll find it's worth it!

   
What is TkDesk?

   TkDesk is a graphical desktop and file manager for UNIX (especially
   Linux) and the X Window System.  Compared with other file managers
   available, it offers the most complete set of file operations and
   services, plus gives the user the ability to configure most aspects of
   TkDesk in a powerful way.  The reason for this is the use of Tcl/Tk as
   the configuration and (for the greatest part of TkDesk) implementation
   language.  TkDesk has been influenced by various other systems and file
   managers: NeXT, for laying out the file browser windows, Apple Finder,
   for the idea of file annotations and, (shock horror), Windows 95, for
   some other (of course minor and unimportant ;-)) inspirations.
 
   This is a brief overview of the most prominent features of TkDesk:
 
   o  Arbitrary number of automatically refreshed file browsers and file
      list windows,
   o  Configurable file-specific popup-menus,
   o  Drag and drop,
   o  Files and directories may also be dropped onto the root window,
   o  Configurable application bar, with several displays and cascadable
      popup menus for each button, files can also be dropped here,
   o  History of visited directories, opened files, executed commands,
      and others, which is automatically saved to disk,
   o  Find files through their annotation, name, contents, size or age,
   o  Trash can for safe deletion of files and directories,
   o  Calculation of disk usage for directory hierarchies,
   o  All file operations (find, copy, disk usage, etc.) are carried out
      in the background,
   o  Traversal of directory hierarchies through recursive cascaded
      menus,
   o  Bookmarks, create menu entries for often used files/directories,
   o  Comprehensive hypertextish online help,
   o  Built-in multi-buffer and undo-capable editor,
   o  Close coupling with Netscape and XEmacs,
   o  Sound support,
   o  Powerful configuration of nearly all aspect of TkDesk through
      Tcl/Tk, this also allows the Tcl-literate to extend TkDesk in
      arbitrary ways,
   o  Free of charge! But see the file COPYING, or menu entry
      Help/License for information on usage and redistribution of TkDesk.

How do I install it?

   See the file INSTALL for instructions on how to install TkDesk.
   Usually the steps are: Install Tcl/Tk if you still don't have it,
   edit TkDesk's Makefile, "make", "make install", done.

Is there a Web page for TkDesk?

   Yes, have a look at:
   http://sun1.rrzn-user.uni-hannover.de/~zzhibol/tkdesk/

   Latest bug fixes, new versions and (in the future) binaries will be
   available first from there.  Well, the latest news and fixes are
   now always available first from the mailing list, see above.
   
   
Good luck (I hope you don't need much) and have fun!!

Christian

