Xcal is a calendar program. It generally sits on your screen
displaying todays date - the format of this can be tailored to your
taste.

Hitting the left button in the date window gives you a `strip' showing
the current month with one line per day. Daily details can be stored
in files (like xcalendar - from where I stole some code). The daily
details will be displayed in the strip - so you can see what you have
to do. The X11 multi-line widget makes this rather nice.

Daily details can be edited by poking at the appropriate day and
getting an edit window. Daily details can contain times and can
be used to trigger screen alarms.

Each strip has `next' and `previous' button, so you can do the common
actions quickly - alternatively you can hit the middle button in the
date window to get a dialogue box which you can use to enter the date
of the month which you want to display.

A top level button on the date strip gives you access to a memo pad
where you can store things that you should be doing. This panel also
shows todays information so a single button click can be used to see
todays appointments.

I have also stolen pscal from the net and modified it to work with the
program. So you can generate pretty printed calendars whenever you
like - assuming that you have a PostScript printer.There are also some
other support programs, xcal_cal, xcalpr and xcalev. See README.contents
for more details on these. See README.install for some installation hints
and pitfalls.

This is release 4.1
The history is:
	Release 1.1  posted to comp.sources.x
		+ two patches
	Release 2.1  circulated privately
	Release 3.1  posted unintentionally to comp.sources.x
	Release 3.2  posted to comp.sources.x
	Release 3.3  posted to comp.sources.x in 1990

Caveats

Yes this IS another - `I need something real to find out about X exercise'.
So, it demonstrates all those faults.

Peter Collinson
Hillside Systems
61 Hillside Avenue
Canterbury
Kent, CT2 8HA

Phone: +44 227 761824
Fax: +44 227 762554
Email: pc@hillside.co.uk

7/November/1993

Fixes/enhancements welcomed....

This is free... however, if you are going to make some profit from
this, then perhaps you should consider passing something back to me
since I am freelance and mostly don't get paid everyday.
