

	NETWATCH is VERY loosely based on the code from Statnet...
	thanks out to Jeroen and Scot...
	
	NETWATCH allows a user (superuser) to monitor an ETHERNET
	and examine activity on the network. Hostnames are highlighted
	in colours (for those supporting them) to indicate activity
	on the bus network based on time ( less than 1 minute RED,
	less than 5 minutes YELLOW, less than 30 minutes GREEN and
	otherwise BLUE). The monitor includes statistics on 
	a) Transmitted and received packets
	b) Protocol of LAST packet (TX or RC)
	c) LAST Communication partner (IP address)
	
	The number of hosts capable of support is a function of
	memory. They are stored in 2 doubly-linked lists (local
	and remote).
	
	Screen updates take place 1 per second (unless a rare 
	lockout... when linked list links are updating... in which
	case it displays in the next second)
	
	Keyboard usage is admittedly limited.
	TAB	Switches between LOCAL and REMOTE sections of screen
	<RIGHT>	Go forward to next display option
	<LEFT> 	Go backward to previous display option 
	<UP> 	Go back to previous page (back 20 lines on most consoles)
			(working on the selected REMOTE OR LOCAL section)
	<DOWN>	Go forward to next page (forward 20 lines on most consoles)
			(working on the selected REMOTE OR LOCAL section)
	c	Clear counters for fresh counting
	n	Clear linked lists for new start
		
	It is a simple program to execute for ETHERNET under LINUX.
	It assumes that there is a "/etc/rc.d/rc.inet1" file for
	network configuration. If so, it checks for an "eth0" ifconfig
	and picks up the netmask from the file.
	
	For those with multiple "eth" interfaces, I am sorry it doesn't
	support both simultaneously. Code changes are required for 
	"eth1" support.

	AUTHOR:	G. MacKay
	E-MAIL:	mackay@gmml.slctech.org
	
	P.S.
		Given the fact that I was sick for 3 days and decided to
		write this code... forgive me for not writing beautiful
		code... (those that know me, probably don't think my
		code is beautiful when I am healthy)

INSTALLATION:

	1.0	Unpack the ARCHIVE (which you have probably already done
		to read this)
		Try:

		tar -xzf netwatch0.3.src.tar.gz
		cd netwatch		(move to the new directory with
						source)

	2.0	Compile the program

		make netwatch		(actually "make" by itself works)

	3.0	If there are no errors, you can EITHER (or do both)

		a) test the program out....

			netwatch

		b) install the program for all users

			make install

			(Warning... you must be root to install AND
			 this program is SET-UID root so BEWARE)

			If you don't want ALL users to access it, but
			just "root", get rid of the set-uid flag

				chmod 700 /usr/local/bin/netwatch


	Good luck...

	Gord.
