       server_connect ?options? host service
              Open a TCP/IP connection to a server of host on the
              port specified by  service.   The  server  is  then
              accessed  using the standard Tcl file I/O commands.
              Host may be a host name or an IP address.  Port may
              be a port number of a service name.

              If  a  destination  host  name is supplied and more
              that one address is valid for the host, the  host's
              addresses will be tried in the order returned until
              one can be connected to, or the list is  exhausted.
              You  may also use the server_info command to obtain
              the list of valid address.

              The options are:

              o -buf - Specifies that the file is buffered.  When
              writing to the file, the flush command must be used
              to force data in the  buffer  to  be  sent  to  the
              server.   Buffered  access  will result in signifi-
              cantly better performance when  reading  data,  and
              will  also  improve  the performance of a series of
              writes done without intervening reads.  The buffer-
              ing  is  only  used when accessing the file via the
              gets, read, and puts commands. The server_send com-
              mand does not use the buffer.

              o -nobuf  -  The  file is unbuffered. A single file
              id, open for both reading and writing, is returned.

              o -twoids  -  Return  a pair of file ids in a list.
              The first id is open for read  access,  the  second
              for write access.  The close command must be called
              against both file ids when you are done  using  the
              socket  and  they maybe closed independently.  This
              option is primarily intended to implement  compati-
              bility  procedures for deprecated commands, however
              it maybe useful for code  that  needs  to  indepen-
              dently  manage  the  read  and  write  ends  of the
              socket.

              o -myip ipNumber - Define the IP  number  for  your
              side  of the connection.  This is useful for multi-
              homed hosts (hosts with more than one IP  address).
              Note  that  only IP addresses corresponding to net-
              work interfaces on your machine may  be  used.   If
              -myip  is  not specified, the operating system will
              assign the IP number for you.

              o -myport portNumber - Define the port  number  for
              your side of the connection.  If the port number is
              already in use, an error will be returned.  If  the
              port  number  is  in  the privileged range, the Tcl
              program will have to be running as superuser, or an
              error will be returned.

              This command is provided by Extended Tcl.
