       server_create ?options?
              Creates   a  TCP/IP  server  socket  on  the  local
              machine.  A file handle is returned upon successful
              creation.  When a connection request is made to the
              server, the file handle becomes  read-ready.   Con-
              nections can be accepted using server_accept.

              The file handle can be detected as read-ready using
              select, by using fcntl to make the handle nonblock-
              ing and then calling server_accept, or by using the
              Tk fileevent command.

              Options are:

              o -myip ipNumber - Define the IP  number  for  your
              side  of the connection.  This is useful for multi-
              homed hosts (hosts with more than one IP  address).
              Note  that  only IP addresses corresponding to net-
              work interfaces on your machine may  be  used.   If
              -myip  is  not specified, the operating system will
              assign the IP number for you.

              o -myport portNumber - Define the port  number  for
              your side of the connection.  If the port number is
              already in use, an error will be returned.  If  the
              port  number  is  in  the privileged range, the Tcl
              program will have to be running as superuser, or an
              error will be returned.

              o -backlog  count  -  Maximum  length  the queue of
              pending connections may grow to.  If  a  connection
              request arrives with the queue full, the client may
              receive an error with  an  indication  of  ECONNRE-
              FUSED,  or,  if  the  underlying  protocol supports
              retransmission, the request may be ignored so  that
              retries  may  succeed.   Note that on at least some
              BSD-based systems the backlog is  silently  limited
              to  5,  regardless  of  the  value  specified.  The
              default is 5.

              o -reuseaddr - Allow reuse of local addresses.


              This command is provided by Extended Tcl.
