3.3.7o
------
PPP is fixed (it seems lile) - thanks to H. J. Lu and
Kyriakos Georgiou. It should work now with PPP servers,
dynamic and static. [Yes, I tested it myself! :-]
Only problem - no line statistics yet, like SLIP has.

BOOTP is patched. Oh, this implementation of BOOTP does
not support packet fragmentation yet, sorry!! Beware!!

Two security-related bugs are fixed.

String variables are [almost] fully supported now. The need
was to be able to prompt a user for his password from the
running DIP script. I think it's been achieved.

Patch by Scott Howard:
|1) Adding of an option -n to print so that it doesnt start a new line. I
|   added this so I could get some visual indication of how a redial was
|   going (ie, print -n .  on each redial)
|2) a new "count" variable, which counts the number of redials that have
|   occured so that it can be printed on connection. (ie, print Connected
|   after $count attempt(s) )

Patch by Colten Edwards <edwac@sasknet.sk.ca> (I hope I credited the
right person - if not - politely yell at me and I'll fix it :-):
several fixes to "term" handling, removing argv title change.

Patch by martin.buck@student.uni-ulm.de:

here are the promised patches for dip that allow you to send the output of
external programs to the modem. I called the new command 'psend' for
pipe-send. It should be safe, because it resets uid & euid to the real uid
before exec'ing the process. And BTW: there's even a patch for the manpage :-)

Patch by Tim Josling: preserve $errlevel through "if", "print" and 
"goto" commands.

Minor patches by Horst von Brand.

Patch by Matthew Baker and Inaky Perez Gonzales: adding "shell" and
"onexit" command.


3.3.7n
------
Finally - the man page is updated!! Enjoy, ye mortals! (:-)

Also, now the log entry DIP leaves, contains the number of seconds
the link was up. This is the first attempt to provide accounting...
The patch was provided by Peter Tobias <tobias@et-inf.fho-emden.de>.

Also, I've expanded the "totals" report -  so if your kernel was
configured with IP Firewall/Accounting enabled, DIP will now use
that, and the log will contain total seconds online,  plus total
bytes in and out, plus total packets in and out.Hope you'll like 
it.

Also, now *if* your PPP negotiates IP addresses and such dynamically
and automatically (i.e. by itself), DIP won't force you to set
remote IP addr any more. But I haven't tested this feature,
and I have no idea how to tell PPP to negotiate those
addresses! Use that on your own risk (or provide
me with the correct info and I'll patch DIP).

Also, minor bug fixes, upgrades and new exotic bugs added (:-).

3.3.7l
------
A big bad bug was introduced somewhere on the line. It didn't check
the passwords. How nasty! Well, I *think* I've plugged this ugly
hole by now. Please, please test it and get back to be with
your reports - whether it works, or not. I need to know!

uri@watson.ibm.com
