1) i) Get different forms of help instead of the current
      verbose mode one.
  ii) Write a man page.

2) introduce different levels of termination depending
on how deep we are in the program.
Currently assuming worst case scenario.

3) Get rid of remaining hard-coded timings (inherited from DOS)

4) let the system take over the full xon/xoff flow control
Currently hard-coded in the program (inherited from DOS)
        NOTE: 3) and 4) would mean a substantial change from the 
	current program skeleton.

5) introduce a config file to allow the user to select:
	i)   the debug level without need to recompile
	ii)  the serial data configuration (currently hard-coded to
	     8N1; was hard-coded to 7N2 in the DOS format)
	iii) any other options that cant be passed via command line
	     Allow the user to have the ability to either still pass the 
	     mandatory parameters via command line or via the config file.

6) J. Pelan (J.Pelan@Queens-Belfast.AC.uk) is working on a binary to
human readable conversion i.e a user would be able to edit a
file using their favorite editor, and convert it to the binary
format to be transmitted to the CASIO.


7) on a long shot:
	i) write a graphical interface to the program; the 
	look has not been decided yet.This would most likely
        be a tcl/tk script and/or a curses version. 
	NOTE - The current command line version would still
	be maintained for the power-users ;->
	ii) write even more filters to allow for use with
	known planners/organizers (both h/w and s/w organizers/planners)
	iii)incorporate into a database -- MiniSQL comes to mind;
8) specify characters as delimiters between data in the ASCII-file. This will 
make it easier to convert the ASCII-file to special formats used in personal 
address databases on Linux machines.
9) Birko Berget (bergt@hrz.tu-chemnitz.de) is working on a .casiorc file
intergration which will optionally remove having to type the whole
command line; the command line will still override what has been stored
in the .casiorc file
