---------
Please have a look at README.usec about the USEC additions
and README.linux about the linux port.
----------


  The files in this directory compromise the 1.0 release of the CMU SNMP
distribution.  This includes the SNMP/ASN.1 library, many client
applications, and supporting documentation.  The snmp agent for the Kinetics
box is included in this distribution, but the KIP code it links against is not
yet distributable (this is not the released KIP code).  This will probably
be distributed at another time if there is sufficient demand.

This code was written with efficiency and portability in mind.  The
applications compile and run on the following systems: IBM PC/RT running ACIS
Release 3, Sun3/60 running SUNOS 3.5, DEC microVax running Ultrix 2.2, and
DECStation 3100's runing Ultrix 3.0.  They are expected to run on any system
with a Berkeley socket interface.

The agent compiles into about 10 KB of 68000 code.  The machine independent
portions of this agent also run on CMU's IBM PC/AT based router.

The applications are designed to be useful in the real world.  Snmpnetstat
is a port of the Berkeley Unix netstat that gathers it's information using
SNMP.  (Many people will enjoy "snmpnetstat mygateway public -r").  Snmpstatus
collects several pieces of information and presents them in a useful format
and is good for everyday status monitoring.  The rest of the tools are simpler,
but still interpret input and output symbolicly (they can be used without
referencing the RFC's!).

For instance, 
snmpnetstat mygateway public -r returns:
Routing tables
Destination      Gateway            Flags   Interface
bbn-net-temp     psc-gw3.psc.edu    UG      Ethernet0
arpanet          prpnet-gw.cc.cmu.e UG      Ethernet0
xerox-net        psc-gw3.psc.edu    UG      Ethernet0
hp-internet      psc-gw3.psc.edu    UG      Ethernet0
...

snmpstatus returns:
[128.2.56.220]=>[Kinetics Fastpath2] Up: 1 day, 4:43:31
Recv/Trans packets - Interface: 262874/39867 | IP 47432/34587

The rest of the applications typically present a variable in a form similar
to the following:
Name: interfaces.ifTable.ifEntry.ifType.1
INTEGER: ethernet-csmacd(6)

The parsing and printing of symbolic object identifiers and the printing of
typed variables is driven by a database that describes the MIB.
The MIB database is now retrieved from a text file in the ASN.1 format used in
the RFC1066 MIB.  This makes adding new (enterprise specific) mibs to the database
very simple.  I will solicit description files from other SNMP vendors and redistribute
them via anonymous FTP.  Initially, the mib.txt file contains a discription of the
RFC 1066 MIB and portions of the CMU enterprise specific MIB.  I had help in optimizing
the parser from Phil Lapsley of Berkeley (Thanks Phil!).

For further information, please consult the man pages.  There are man pages for
each of the applications, as well as for the Application Programming Interface (API).

The API has been redesigned to present a very convenient and useful asynchronous
interface to the SNMP transport.  In addition, snmp_client.c contains a toolkit
of routines that simplify writing client applications.  In particular, there is
a synchronous interface built on top of the asyncronous interface that makes
writing applications very easy.

This distribution is coprighted by CMU, but may be used and sold without
permission.  The snmpnetstat application is derived from the Berkeley 4.3 netstat,
and is therefore also copyrighted by Berkeley.  Consult the copyright notices for
further information.

The distribution is available by anonymous FTP from the host
lancaster.andrew.cmu.edu (128.2.13.21) as the file pub/cmu-snmp1.0.tar.  I will
maintain a repository of mib description files in the directory pub/mibs.

Please direct questions, comments, and bug reports to sw0l+snmp@andrew.cmu.edu.
I have received very helpful feedback in the past that has been integrated into 
the current release.  This wil continue in the future.

If you pick up this package, please send me a note to the above address, so
that I may notify you of future enhancements/changes and additions to the
set of applications (several are planned).  I will also redistribute applications
using the CMU SNMP library that were written elsewhere and placed in the public domain.
There are already several such applications pending such a distribution.

There is a gateway at CMU running the agent.  Feel free to query it.  You
can access as netdev-kbox.cc.cmu.edu (128.2.56.220) with community name
"public".


Steve Waldbusser
Network Development
Carnegie-Mellon University
