$Id: ANNOUNCEMENT,v 2.4 1995/07/08 10:20:35 chris Released $


                               SPLITDIGEST 2.3
                               ---------------


What is it?
-----------

Splitdigest undigests a mail folder which may contain one or more digest
files concatenated together. The result is that each of digest files are
extracted into its own file and placed into a form suitable for reading with
a mail user agent (such as with "mail -f" or "elm -f"). Each message in the
extracted digests can then be read and replied to individually.

Splitdigest can be easily extended to handle a variety of digest files
simultaneously simply by modifying its configuration file. No recompilation
is required. At present, splitdigest comes preconfigured to handle digests
sent by vger.rutgers.edu, news-digests.mit.edu, the ANNOUNCE, GCC and KERNEL
channel digest of linux-activists and the MSDOS-Ann and Garbo-Ann digests.

This is a useful program to have if you are on mailing lists that distribute
their mail in digest formats. Splitdigest allows you to read and reply to
messages in those digests on an individual basis, thus making reading and
replying to mail in such digests more pleasant.


What's new in 2.3
-----------------
1. Splitdigest now does not copy the "Content-Length: " header to the
output file when undigesting. It has been reported that the header
confuses some mail user agents when dealing with the undigested folder,
since the length of the undigested folder has actually changed.
2. Updated the documentation.


Where To Find It
----------------

I have uploaded splitdigest-2.3.tar.gz to sunsite.unc.edu. It is (at the
date of this notice) probably in the /pub/Linux/Incoming directory.
I suppose that it will be moved to
	/pub/Linux/system/Mail/mailhandlers/
to replace splitdigest-2.2.tar.gz


Copyright Policy
----------------

Splitdigest is Copyright (c) 1994, 1995 by Christopher Heng. All rights
reserved. It is released under the conditions of the GNU General Public
License version 2. In addition, you may not remove or alter any of the
copyright notices and/or conditions for use and distribution. There is
absolutely no warranty for the program, its documentation and its output.
See the file COPYING in the distribution for details.


How To Reach The Author
-----------------------

I can currently be reached at the following internet email address:
	cyfheng@singnet.com.sg (Christopher Heng, Singapore)


LSM entry
---------
Begin3
Title:          Splitdigest
Version:        2.3
Entered-date:   8 July 1995
Description:    Splitdigest undigests a file which contains one or more
		digests concatenated together. The files generated can be
		read by using "mail -f" and each message in the digest can
		be read/replied to as individual messages. Splitdigest can
		be easily configured to recognise a variety of digest
		formats without recompilation.
Keywords:       digest, splitdigest, undigest, mail, mailing list
Author:         cyfheng@singnet.com.sg (Christopher Heng)
Maintained-by:  cyfheng@singnet.com.sg (Christopher Heng)
Primary-site:   sunsite.unc.edu /pub/Linux/system/Mail/mailhandlers/
		splitdigest-2.3.tar.gz
Alternate-site: 
Original-site:  
Platform:       
Copying-policy: GPL version 2. In addition, you may not alter or remove any
		of the copyright notices and/or conditions for use and
		distribution.
End
