




                           Installation procedure


The installation  is pretty straight  forward, but  if you have  to install
something else first, it may take some time.
1  Make sure you have sgmls installed somewhere in you path.

2  You  need bigloo to compile  the source (or  change it to be  useful for
   another scheme system). Thus probably better get bigloo.

3  If you want to use Lout for the backend install it too.

4  For EPS pictures in the LaTeX (prior to 2E) output you need epsfig.sty.

5  Then install the package itself.
Installation of the package:
During the installation the following rules apply:

o  No  file is created by  the (basic) installation process  outside of the
   base directory named DD (choosen in the toplevel Makefile).
o  The  runtime access to  intalled files goes  via the directory  named SR
   choosen in the toplevel Makefile.
o  After installation the  directory where the distribution was untared may
   be removed.
o  The  documentation is installed from  the DD directory and  has it's own
   custumizable target directories.

The installation process:
Unfortunatly there  is always  a problem.  Some systems  don't have  a full
featured install other lack the -R switch on cp. There is a install program
in the install  subdirectory of the distribution. Use it  if your's doesn't
understand  the  -d switch.  (This  install  also supports  an  environment
variable INSTALLFILE, which  can point to a file where  a list of installed
files is to be loged.)
1  Untar the distribution

2  Edit the Makefile. Usually  all you have to set up is the base directory
   (SR) or only the ``prefix''.
   Set  the variable PARSEPROG  to either  ``sgmls'' or ``nsgmls''.  Do not
   use a full path here!

   Also  decide whether to generate  the LaTeX for the  graphics package or
   the  epsfig substyle.  There is the  variable GRPHPKG  for. Set  this to
   ``grphcs'' or  to ``epsfig''. I don't know if  epsfig works with LaTeX2e
   nor if  graphics works with LaTeX 2.09. I recomented  to use epsfig with
   version 2.09 and graphics with 2e.
   If you need,  adapt the variables holding the make, cp and mkdir program
   as well as the mkdir options used through the installation process.












                                   - 2 -


   There  is still some  support for the and  the variable REMLOC  left in.
   This  is from the old version,  may disappear some day and  is no longer
   full supported. You  can choose either local or remote (probably local).
   (The remote installation  sets up a quite tricky environment, where some
   of the used commands are accessed on a remote host.)

3  **Only** for bigloo version 1.7:
   You  need  to change  the  source back  to the  old  module language  of
   bigloo.

   Within  the module  clauses  (these is  the first  declaration within  a
   file) of the files
   o   typeset.scm
   o   files.scm
   are comments like


       ;BEGIN BIGLOO1.x
       ; .....
       ;END BIGLOO1.x


   Also  further down within  typeset.scm there  is a block  surounded with
   the same comments. It's a work around a bug within bigloo1.7.
   Find  these  lines,  remove  the  semicolons commenting  out  the  lines
   between ``;BEGIN  BIGLOO1.7'' and ``;END BIGLOO1.7'' respectivly comment
   out those line only for version 1.8.

4  Do ``make all''  to compile the executable and hardwire the installation
   directory in some runtime files (have a coffee).

5  Now   the   hand  work   part:  got   to   include/layout.scm  and   set
   latex-latex-type  either  to  'LATEX209  or  to 'LATEX2E.  (The  default
   setting is 'LATEX2E).

6  Do  a make install. This  will copy the distribution  and the executable
   into  the choosen DD directory and  hardwire the SR name in  some of the
   files.

7  Make  a symlink  from the executable  (Named by  $(EXE) in  the toplevel
   Makefile,  to  be found  in the  bin  directory; default  name: sdc)  to
   something  anywhere  in your  path (like  /usr/local/bin/sdc). (I  don't
   recomment  to  move or  copy  the executable  around  cause updates  and
   uninstall will be easier this way.)
8  Thats all  you need, but it's better to set DOCPATH  to the root of your












                                   - 3 -


   personal document tree (see the typeset man page).

9  To  install  the  documentation  do  a ``make  installdoc''.  This  will
   install the documentation in the default places.
   Because  these places may  be different in  your system, you  might want
   to  cd into the  doc directory of the  distribution. Do a  ``make help''
   to  see what you can do.  Then edit the Makefile to  reflect your system
   and do a  ``make doc'' to install the documentation. If you have trouble
   with the local handling of the notations you'll get some warnings.

10 The  include directory holds  some files (i.e.,  layout.scm, manpage.scm
   and  language.scm) which might  to be  custumized. See the  comments and
   doc/targets.sgml or compile it into a format you like to read.


       (e.g., sdc -O ps -o targets.ps targets.sgml)


11 There  is a  file sgml/local.ent.  Change this  to reflect  your system,
   if  you need. Things  like localy defined  notations go here.  (Only for
   advanced users installation.)
12 If   your   use   emacs   you   might  want   to   extend   compilation-
   error-regexp-alist with a line:

   ("SGML error at \\([, \t\n]+\\), line \\([0-9]+\\)" 1 2)
   to get the  goto-next-error funtions and the like in compile mode right.
   Uhm, for  nsgmls you need a different pattern.  But this should probably
   work out of the box.
   I  personally found  the SGML-mode  of emacs  not suitable  (these DTD's
   require  to  few  markup to  make  this  mode  resonalble and  the  text
   formatting  support  was too  limited  for my  taste).  Therefor I  (and
   others)  hacked a  slight modification. bin/mode.el  holds the  code for
   a  new mode  I  like (especially  for the  folding properties).  (Please
   note  that this mode  reflects personal  taste.) It's far  from perfect,
   especialy  the  highlighting is  broken. Unfortunatly  the 19.31  update
   broke the  code. Users of older version might uncomment  one line in the
   keymap to get the closing angle work again.

13 If  you  want  to  install  automatic  figure  handling  or  some  other
   notations  on your  system, see  doc/notations.sgml (which  is also  the
   source  for the  some  other files)  to see  whats going  on. Among  the
   packages  involved there are: ghostscript, xfig,  tgif, pnmtools, groff,
   latex and lout. But you are not forced to have them.

14 If you want  install bbset, a program to correct/insert correct bounding












                                   - 4 -


   boxes  in EPS  files,  for use  without sdc.  It's installed  as a  part
   of  sdc (in it's  private bin directory) but  might be useful  for other
   things.
   If  you issue a ``make  instbbset'' from the distribution  directory you
   get it installed in $(prefix)/bin and the manpage in $prefix/man/man1.

15 See  the file doc/targets.text  for details  about the formating  in the
   various  target formats. For  easy reading format  it into the  type you
   like. E.g.,


       sdc -O latex -o targets.tex doc/targets.sgml


   Note,  that you  need to format  the file  doc/target.sgmlwhich includes
   the otherdoc/target.text.
In the case you encounter any problems or find bugs, typos etc. please mail
me: Joerg.Wittenberger@inf.tu-dresden.de.


































