This directory contains a program that use the kpathsea library for
configuration and path searching, and the library itself.

If you are looking for a high-level overview of installing a TeX system
from scratch, try ftp.cs.umb.edu:pub/tex/unixtex.ftp, mirrored on CTAN
sites as /tex-archive/help/unixtex.ftp.  For a list of CTAN sites,
finger ctan_us@ftp.shsu.edu (a list current as of the time of
distribution is in the file FTP).

README in each program's subdirectory has an overview of that program.
NEWS in each subdirectory contains noteworthy changes by release.
INSTALL in each subdirectory has detailed instructions.
  kpathsea/INSTALL has information common to all the packages.
  kpathsea/CONFIGURE has information on running the configure script.

If you just want to go for it (see kpathsea/INSTALL for explanations and
variations):
    configure
    make
    make install
    make distclean
(In the top-level directory, i.e., the one with this README.)

Do not merge different distributions that use kpathsea unless you are
savvy enough to deal with the consequences.  web2c, in particular, uses
a much older version than the drivers (for a patch, see
ftp.cs.umb.edu:pub/tex/kpathsea-2.*.help).

The default installation prefix is the parent of the directory
containing the program `tex', or /usr/local. To change it or any other
paths, see kpathsea/INSTALL.

The above installs the programs, plus the configuration file texmf.cnf
and all the documentation. To install the libkpathsea.a library itself
and its header files, do
   (cd kpathsea; make install)
before the make distclean.  (configure does not look for an installed
library or header files, since it's virtually always incompatible from
one version to the next.)

Please report bugs or suggestions in either the programs
or the documentation, no matter how small, to tex-k@cs.umb.edu.
Please read the `Bugs' section of the kpathsea manual (a copy is in
kpathsea/INSTALL) before submitting bug reports, to avoid wasting
everyone's time.

Email tex-k-request@cs.umb.edu with a line containing
    subscribe you@preferred.email.address
in the body of the message to join this mailing list.

If you know enough about TeX to be reading this, then you (or perhaps
your institution) should consider joining the TeX Users Group.  (If
you're already a member, great!)  TUG produces the TUGboat periodical,
sponsors an annual meeting and publishes the proceedings, and arranges
TeX courses for all levels of users.  Given funding (which your joining
would help) TUG will sponsor more projects that will benefit the TeX
community, such as a successor to TeX $\pi$.

Anyway, here is the address:

    TeX Users Group
    P.O. Box 869
    Santa Barbara, CA 93102 USA
    phone: (805) 899-4673
    email: tug@tug.org

This is free software.  See the files COPYING* for copying permissions.

kb@cs.umb.edu
Member of the League for Programming Freedom -- write lpf@uunet.uu.net.

(We begin again. We try. We begin again ... down by ... the muddy river.
 --Laurie Anderson.)
