**************************************************************
*                     X-CD-Roast 0.95c                       *
*------------------------------------------------------------*
* 02.03.97 Thomas Niederreiter                               *
*          (tn@mailserv.rz.fh-muenchen.de)                   *
**************************************************************

Table of contents:
------------------

1)   DISCLAIMER
2)   Introduction
3)   Software-Requirements
4)   Hardware-Requirements
5)   Installation
6)   First start
7)   Setup-Menu
8)   Copy-CD-Menu
8.1) Copy Data-CDs
8.2) Copy Audio- or Mixed-Mode-CDs
9)   Quick-Copy-CD
10)  Master-CD
11)  Useful Information
12)  Known Bugs
13)  Frequently Asked Questions and Problem-solver
14)  Credits
15)  Supported CD-Writers

-------------------------------------------------------------------------

1) DISCLAIMER
-------------

I am not responsible for any damage to your hardware or software 
caused by this program.
The use of the program can be dangerous. If you don't know what you
are doing, don't do it. 
I am also not responsible for any misuse of the program by creating
copies of CDs without permission. 

                       ----------------------
                        USE IT AT OWN RISK !
                       ----------------------

2) Introduction
---------------

X-CD-Roast is full X based CD-Writer-Program, and it is the successor
of the "cdwtools-0.93". 
It is a frontend for some CD related programs like
"cdwrite-2.1" and "mkisofs-1.05". 
With some simple mouse-clicks you can copy or create your own CDs,
without long study of any commandline-parameters. 

Feature-list:

- Point'n'Click X11-Interface.
- Automatic SCSI-Hardware Setup.
- Copies ISO9660-CDs, Non-ISO9660-CDs (like Mac- or Sun-CDs),
  Mixed-Mode-CDs and Audio-CDs.
- Master ISO9660-Data-CDs.
- Create your own Audio-CDs.
- Quick CD->CD Copy (no need of an image partition)
- Logfile
 
It is not possible yet to copy or create multisession-CDs!
To copy a multisession CD, you have to mount it, copy all files to
HD and master them.


3) Software-Requirements
------------------------

This program is a mixture of C and Tcl-programs. I included all necessary
source-code, except the source to the Tcl/TK-package with the Tix-Extension. 
But I included a precompiled binary of a working version of Tcl/Tk/Tix. 
You therefore don't need to get and install Tcl/Tk/Tix yourself!

You need:

 - Linux System with an installed X Window System.
 - Linux Kernel pre2.0.6 (1.99.6) or above.
   (Kernels under 1.3.57 had problems with dummy-write and kernels
    under 1.3.98 failed to detect CD-Rom-Media-changes correctly and
    read-ahead handling is working only with pre2.0.6+)

   Note: YOU WON'T BE ABLE TO READ IMAGES WITH A KERNEL OLDER THAN
         PRE2.0.6!!!!!!
	 
   Note 2: You must include SCSI-Disk, CD-Rom and Generic-Support in 
	   the kernel!

   Note 3: This program is a GOOD reason to update to Kernel 2.0!

 - TCL 7.4 or above. (Or use included precompiled binary "etixwish")
 - TK 4.0 or above. (Or use included precompiled binary "etixwish")
 - TIX 4.0 or above. (Or use included precompiled binary "etixwish")

Where can I get this files?

	Here some example-sites. (Please search a mirror if these sites
	are too slow for you)

	Kernel: ftp://ftp.funet.fi/pub/Linux/PEOPLE/Linus/v2.0
	        ftp://ftp.leo.org/pub/comp/os/Linux/Linus/v2.0
	Tcl+Tk: ftp://ftp.neosoft.com/pub/tcl
		ftp://ftp.smli.com/pub/tcl
	Tix:	ftp://ftp.xpi.com/pub/	



Software included in this package not written by me:

 - cdwrite-2.1: Handles all writing operations on the CD-Writer
 
 - mkisofs-1.05: Creates an ISO9660-FS from a directory tree.

 - fdisk3.04: Needed to get some partition-tables information.

 For more information about these included programs look at the
 README-file in the src-directory.


4) Hardware-Requirements
------------------------

To use this program you need the following hardware:

 - At least a 486/33 (faster recommended) and 16 MB Ram (less might work,
   but will harm performance and safety).

 - Any Graphic-card running with X11.

 - SCSI-Controller running with Linux.

 - A SCSI-Harddrive with an at least 800 MB partition. (For storing CD-Images)
   If you want master your own CDs you need also the space for your
   data in addition to that partition.
 
 - A supported SCSI-CD-Writer (see 15. Supported CD-Writers).

Optional hardware supported:

 - SCSI-CD-Rom to enable Quick-CD-Copy (see below).
 
 - 16-Bit Soundcard to listen to audio-tracks. 


5) Installation
---------------

 - Unpack this package to a directory of your choice. 
   I recommend something like /usr/local/lib/xcdroast-0.95c
   Note: I am not providing a install-script at the moment, so
         pick yourself a good place for the files.

 - Type "make" to build all programs in the src-directory. The generated
   binaries are moved automatically in the bin-directory.

 - You can optionally move the xcdroast-start-script to a directory
   in your path (e.g. /usr/local/bin), but then you must edit the
   script so that the cd-command points to the directory where
   you installed the xcdrlib. (In our example, this would be
   "cd /usr/local/lib/xcdroast-0.95c/xcdrlib").

 Now check if your system is configured ok:

 - Check whether /dev/sr0 and /dev/sr1 exist. If not, create them by 
   linking them to /dev/scd0 and /dev/scd1.
   (do: ln -s /dev/scd0 /dev/sr0; ln -s /dev/scd1 /dev/sr1 )

 - Check whether Tix is installed properly:
   (Skip this when you use the included binary)
   Type "tixwish" in the shell. If a grey window pops up and there
   is a "%" displayed in your shell and they were no error-messages
   displayed, all is well.  
   Then type "exit" to leave tixwish.  

 For a better system-check run the script "./syscheck" and follow
 the instructions on the screen. The generated output is also a good
 base for bug-reports!
 

6) First start
--------------

You must be user "root" to run this program. Just setting the setuid bit
won't work. (You can't give a script the setuid bit)

Type "xcdroast" to start the program. Then you should see the 
title-screen and a message that no configuration-file was found.
Click on "Ok" to enter the setup menu.

Note: If you can't start xcdroast, it is perhaps not in your path.
      Go in the directory where you installed xcdroast and type
      "./xcdroast" in this case.


7) Setup Menu
-------------

In the setup menu you specify all your hardware settings, all other
program modules will use the devices you set here.
Note that, currently, only SCSI-Devices are displayed, IDE 
and other hardware is NOT SUPPORTED. (IDE will be supported in
future versions.)

- CD-Setup:
  
  Source CD-ROM: This is the device that is used for all READ Operations
    on CD-ROMs. This includes also Audio Readback. You can even specify 
    your CD-Writer as Read Device. 

  Audio Read-Back Speed: This is the speed for reading audio data from 
    the CD-ROM. Data is read always at maximum speed.
    When you set this to "Default" then no speed-select command will be
    sent to the read-device. Experiment with the other settings to find
    out which speed works best for you. 
    This works only when you read Audio with the CD-Writer. 
     
  CD-Writer Device: This is your CD-Writer.

  CD-Writer Mode: This is mode in which the writer is accessed. If you 
    have a Philips/IMS/Kodak/HP/Yamaha/Sony writer, you should leave this 
    set to "Autodetect", but If you have another brand you know it is 
    compatible to one of the writers mentioned above, you can set 
    the mode here.

  CD-Writer Speed: This is the speed at which the data is written. 
    Don't specify a speed greater than the writer can handle.

- HD-Setup:

  Write-Protect (Lock) Partitions: This displays all partitions found
    on all connected SCSI-disks. Select here the partitions you want
    to be safe from being overwritten. Usually specify all partitions 
    except the ones you want to use as a temporary image storage. 
    (Like your system-partitions.)

  Image Partition: This is the HD-Partition where CD-Images will be 
    stored. Should be about 800 MB in size when copying full CDs.

  Image Mountpoint: This is the mount point where the image partition
    will be mounted. This is needed when you copy the image to a file
    instead of copying it raw to a partition, or when copy Audio 
    or non-ISO9660-CDs.

- Misc:

  Beep when ready: Here you set the events the program reacts to with a 
    beep. This can be used to get your attention when e.g. the CD is is
    finished.
    There are three options:
     - Never: No beeps.
     - On Completion: Always when a read/verify/write operations is
                      completed.
     - On Warnings: When a warning window pops up.
     - Always: On both events mentioned above.

  Logfile: Enter a filename in which all your actions will be
    logged. You also can disable logging.

  DSP-Device: This is your soundcard's dsp-device. You can use
    the soundcard to listen to audio-tracks.
    If don't have a soundcard that is able to play digital data at
    44.1 kHz, 16-bit, stereo, set this to "None" 


After you have finished set up, press "Save" to create a configuration
file "xcdroast.conf". Please note that your hardware settings, partitions 
and mount points are also saved in that file.

At each startup the settings in the file are compared to your current 
system settings and, if there are mismatches, you are forced to enter 
setup again.

Note: If you have been forced to enter setup, you can't exit with "Cancel", 
because the program can't run without all settings specified.
  

8) Copy-CD-Menu
---------------

First the program checks in contents of your image partition and mounts
it if it finds an ext2-filesystem on it.

The setup of your devices is diplayed at the top of the menu. To change 
any of the values, you must enter the setup menu again.

To the right you see a window titled "CD-Information" which identifies
the CD in the read device. The window "Image-Information" gives you 
information about the contents of the image partition.

On the left, is the control panel where you choose whether you want to 
copy an audio/mixed-mode or an data CD. This is preselected
according to the type of CD in the drive.

The button "Rescan" updates the two information windows. You should
press this button after inserting a new CD.

"Cancel" quits to the main menu.


8.1) Copy Data-CDs
------------------

Copy a Data-CD in four steps: 

First read the entire contents of the CD to a HD-Partition. Then
optionally verify the data by comparing the partition with the CD. Next
write the CD-image from the HD to a CD-Recordable. The last step is
the verification of burned CD-R with the image on the HD.

- Read Image: 

   Image-Size displays the size of the image and Free-Space shows 
   how much space is left on the image partition. 

   Here, you can choose whether you want to read the image to a file or 
   raw to the partition. I recommended a read to the partition because
   this is a little bit faster. 

   If you insert a non-ISO9660 CD (like Mac or Sun-CDs) you have to 
   read the image to file because this is only way to determine 
   the image size when writing.

   Note: If you read the image to a file, you can enter a filename. 
         Always make sure you have the extention ".raw".

- Verify Image:

   Image-Size displays the size of image on the CD.
   Verify always compares the CD in the drive with the image on the HD.

   Note: You should not need to change any of the settings displayed
         in the verify-menu. They are correctly set when you enter
         the menu after reading the image.

- Write Image:

   This writes the CD-Image from HD to a CD-Recordable.

   You can specify the type of your CD-R and some write options:

   - Simulation-Write: Simulates the write-process. Your CD-R will
     not be written. Do this to test whether your system is fast enough
     to write without errors. 

   - Eject After Write: If you want to autoeject the CD-R after it has
     been written, enable this option.
   
   - Pad Data-Track: This add 30 kilobytes (15 sectors) of nulls to the
     end of each data track. This is a work-around for a bug in Linux
     (up to and including at least version 1.2.8), which sometimes does 
     not correctly read the last few sectors written. 
     Currently X-CD-Roast fixes the problem with disabling the read-
     ahead-cache of Linux when approaching the very last sectors of a
     CD. So enabling this is no longer needed. (But doesn't hurt on the
     other side.)

- Verify Burned Image:

   You can use this to check if the burned CD-R was written correctly.


8.2) Copy Audio- or Mixed-Mode-CDs
----------------------------------

Some notes about audio CDs:
Audio CDs are divided into tracks. Each track usually contains a song and,
between tracks, there is a two-second pause. Some CDs, however, do not have 
these two seconds pauses between tracks, which makes it tricky to copy them.
This software writes audio CDs in the "track-at-once-mode", which 
means that the hardware (the writer) itself ALWAYS creates the two-second
pause. There is NO way to get around this at the moment. So, if you
want to copy a CD without the two-second pause, you have to read in the 
whole CD as ONE big track (see merging below). 
It is also not possible to set or read CD-indexes at present. 
This will change when cdwrite allows this.


Copying audio or mixed-mode is very similar to copying data CDs.
First read in the tracks (can be data or audio). Next verify
the tracks. Verification by comparison is only possible with data 
tracks. To verify audio tracks, you must listen to them (soundcard required).
Then you can write the CD. The last step is verification of the data track 
written on CD.

- Read Tracks (Data/Audio)

   Tracks-totals shows how much tracks are on the CD in the drive. 
   Total-length displays the total length of this CD.
   Size of selected tracks is the sum of all tracks selected in the track 
   window. Free-Space shows the free space on the image partition.

   Filename-prefix is the prefix of the file name used for the track files.
   A number and the extension ".cdda" (Audio) or ".raw" (Data) will be 
   appended to this prefix.
   In the field CD-Title you can type the name of the CD. This name
   will be saved in the audio-description file and is only for your
   information.

   The next few buttons are the offset-control.
   Explaination: Audio-Tracks have a beginning and an end.
   An offset is the relative time to the beginning or end.
   If you have a start offset of 1 sec. then the audio track will be
   recorded beginning 1 sec. after its real start. Negative values go
   back in time, and positive values go forward. 
   Example: If you have a track with 2 minutes and you want record
   only 30 sec. beginning after the first minute, you would enter
   a starti offset of 60 sec. and an end offset of -30 sec.

   Global Offsets means that all tracks are assigned the same offset.

   Skip last 2 sec. of track: Most audio CDs have a 2 sec. pause
   between the tracks. The CD-Writer automatically creates these 2 
   sec. pauses when writing audio tracks. 
   If you skip the 2 sec. pause at recording time,  you get the 
   2 sec. back when writing the track so the track retains its 
   original length.
   Nevertheless, I recommend listening to the track before burning
   the CD to make sure to complete song has been recorded. 

   Time-Offset Units: Here you choose whether you want the offsets 
   displayed in seconds or in frames (1/75 sec.).

   In the main-window you select which tracks you want to read.
   There you can enter a track title for audio tracks (for your 
   information only). The columns Preemphasis and Copy permitted show
   this information, you can't change them.

   The playbuttons pre-play the audio-track exactly like they will be
   recorded. The play quality may be not very good. This depends on
   your hardware. You need a soundcard for this feature.
 
   Merging:
   If you want record several tracks into one track, e.g., to get 
   around the automatic 2 sec. pause between tracks, you can merge tracks.
   Just select several tracks in order and click on "Merge Tracks".
   You will see a black arc connecting these tracks. Offsets between 
   connected tracks are ignored.

- Verify Data-Track

   Compares the data track of the CD (Mixed-Mode only) with the
   data track file on HD.

- Play Audio-Track

   Plays an audio track from the file on the image partition. With
   the info button you see all information stored to this track.

   The play-audio window should be self-explanatory. Note that you
   can jump around in the track by left-clicking somewhere in the
   process display.

- Delete Tracks

   Here you can delete some or all tracks from your hard drive.   


- Write Tracks

   Tracks on HD displays how many data or audio tracks have been found
   on the image partition.
   Total length shows the total length of all tracks on the HD.

   Size of sel. tracks HD shows total size of all tracks selected in the left
   window.
   Total size of track on CD reports how much already is scheduled to
   be written to the CD. The 2 sec. pause between each track is already
   included.

   With the two arrows between the two main windows you can select and
   deselect tracks to write.

   After pressing "Continue" a window pops up similar to the one
   by "Write Image". (See "Write Image" for a description.)

- Verify Burned Data-Track

   Compares the data track on the burned CD-R with the one on the HD.


9) Quick Copy-CD
----------------

Quick Copy-CD allows copying of a pure ISO9660-Data-CD without the need
of creating an image on HD.
You need a seperate CD-ROM device in addition to your writer to
utilize this feature. In this mode, data is read off the CD-ROM device
and written immediately to the writer.  Please note that your 
read device should be faster than your writer (alternatively, decrease
write speed) - I recommend that the read device is twice as fast as 
the writer, but I successfully burned CDs with 4.4x read speed and writing 
with 4x speed - and that any errors (e.g., read errors) result in a 
wasted CR-R! 

                      USE THIS FEATURE WITH CAUTION !!!!! 

I strongly recommend experimenting with this option only with 
simulation write enabled. The write options have been already explained
in the write-image section of this README file.


10) Master-CD
-------------

Master a CD means that you setup a directory tree containing up to 650 MB
of data that is to be burned on a CD. Because the filesystem on a CD is
completely different from a filesystem on the harddrive, we must convert
the data to the CD-ROM format ISO9660. This takes quite some time. 

- Set Master-Partition: 

   Here you specify which partition the data to master is in. If
   you don't have the data on a special partition, you can specify
   here that it is in a premounted directory. If you want to master 
   from a NFS-mounted directory you have to mount the directory yourself
   and choose premounted directory. 

- Set Master-Directory:

   This is the directory that contains the directory tree you want to
   master. 

   After you set this dir, the "HD-Content Preview"-window displays
   its contents. Use this to check if you have choosen the right directory.
   The files displayed in this window are the files that will be
   in the root directory of the CD.   
   
- Set Image-Type:

   Here you define how the data should be mastered. This is done by
   setting the target system on which the CD will be used.
   You can choose:          
     - Unix Rock-Ridge:
          Use this for CDs with long filenames that are case sensitive, 
          links, permissions...
          This type of CD is perfect for Linux CDs and can be read by
          most other systems with a few drawbacks. Win95/NT ignores
          links and permissions. DOS has problems with long
          filenames.
     - Win95/NT:
          This creates a CD suitable for Win95 or WinNT. It is just like
      	  a normal DOS-CD, but has long filenames. The long filenames 
	  cannot be read on DOS-Systems.
     - DOS:
	  Creates a CD with short filenames and no extras. Fully readable
	  on all systems.
     - Custom:
          Define your own CD-Type:
	  - Include all files:
             Don't skip files that contain a ~ or #. (Usually backup-files)
          - Follow symb. Links:
             Follow symbolic links instead of writing them as link file
             in Rock Ridge or ignoring them otherwise.
          - Allow long (32-char) filenames:
	     Use long filenames instead of the 8.3 format used on DOS.
	  - Enable Rock Ridge extensions:
	     Use the Rock Ridge protocol to allow special files like 
	     links, devices and so on.
             This option will write all permissions and user and group-ids 
	     as they are in the filesystem. (Usually useless information for
             other systems)
	  - Rock Ridge with anonymity:
	     Like the normal Rock Ridge, only that all user and group-ids
	     are set to 0. All permissions will be set in a way that is 
	     more useful (i.e., all files readable, none writeable, etc. )
	  - Create TRANS.TBL-files:
	     Generates a file TRANS.TBL in each directory on the CD, which
	     can be used on non-Rock Rigde capable systems to help establish
	     the correct file names.
	  - Omit trailing periods:
	     Omit trailing periods from files that do not have a period.
	     This violates the ISO9660 standard, use with caution.
	  - Do not use deep dir. relocation:
 	     Do not use deep directory relocation, and instead just
	     pack them in a way we see them. This violates the ISO9660
	     standard, use with caution.
	  - Allow files beginning with a dot:
	     Allow filenames to begin with a period. Usually, a 
	     leading dot is replaced with an underscore in order
	     to maintain MS-DOS compatibility.
	  - Omit ISO version numbers:
	     Omit version numbers from ISO9660 filenames. This may
	     violate the ISO9660 standard, but no one really uses
	     the version numbers anyway. Use with caution.

- Set ISO9660 Header-Strings:
 
   Here we prepare the ISO9660-Header-Strings.
    - Volume-ID:
	Volume-ID to be written in the master block. DOS calls this
        disk label. 
    - Publisher-ID:
        This should describe the publisher of the CD-ROM, usually with
	mailing address and phone number. Can be 128 chars long.
    - Preparer-ID:
        This should describe the preparer of the CD-ROM, usually with
	mailing address and phone number. Can be 128 chars long.
    - Application-ID:
	This should describe the application on the CD. Can be 128
	chars long.

   "Clear Entries" clears all entries. 
   "Read ID's from CD" reads all values from a CD in the drive.

- Master Image:
 
   Here you set where the image should be generated (just as with 
   "Read-Image"). 
   With the "Calculate Size" button you can find out the approximate
   size of the image before you master it.
   Please note that this size is just the size the data occupies on
   the harddisk. Usually the generated image is a little bit smaller
   because the ISO9660-filesystem stores files more efficiently. 

   After mastering the "Image-Content-Preview" is updated and shows
   the contents of the image. Use this to check whether the correct files
   have been mastered. The way filenames are displayed can differ a 
   little on other systems. 

- Write Image:

   See "Write-Image" on the copy dialog.

- Verify Burned Image:
  
   See "Verify Burned Image" on the copy dialog.

Some notes about the ISO9660-Filesystem:
 Please consider that the ISO9660 standard does not allow more than 8
 directory levels. If you have more than that, a directory "RR_MOVED" will
 be created in the root of your CD containing all the files that are 
 beyond the eighth directory level.
 If you enabled Rock Ridge on the CD, then this directory will be invisible 
 mapped back at the correct position when you mount the CD on Rock-Ridge
 capable systems (Unix). 
 When you see a directory "rr_moved" in the Image-Content preview window and
 Rock-Ridge was not enabled, you had more than 8 directory levels.


11) Useful Information
----------------------

READ THIS - It will help!

- Timing is critical while writing a CD. Be sure that nobody starts
  heavy-loaded processes. (Perhaps by shutting down the network.)
  You must maintain a steady data flow. If the CD-Writer "runs dry",
  the resulting disc may be unreadable. The more cache the CD-Writer
  has, the likelihood of missing data drops.
  I was able to write a CD successfully with 4x-speed on a Yahama Writer 
  with an ISA-Adaptec 1542B, 486/50. So there is enough
  power in Linux. Don't worry. But do use simulation writes to 
  play safe.

- The next hints are taken from the cdwrite manpage:

       Unless  your  SCSI  controller  and driver support discon-
       nect/reconnects, you will probably not be able to write  a
       CD  correctly  if  the  CD writer and hard disk are on the
       same SCSI bus.  It is not recommended that IDE drives  are
       used  on  CD-writing system; if they are, it is imperative
       that interruptible operation is enabled using  the  hdparm
       command.

       It  is  not recommended to use more than single speed when
       reading data off a filesystem (as opposed to  a  raw  disk
       partition).

       cdwrite  does  not  verify that the input data will fit on
       the media.  In the case of media  overrun,  the  resulting
       disc is usually unreadable.

       A Compact Disc can have no more than 100 tracks.

       When  creating  a disc with both audio and data tracks, it
       is conventional to place the data on  track  1.   Some  CD
       players  or  CD-ROM  drives may respond incorrectly to any
       other arrangement, although the specifications permit  it.

       Many  systems are not able to read more than a single data
       track, or need special software to do so.

       Some CD players have problems reading "gold"  CD's,  and
       some have problems reading the outermost tracks (i.e. very
       long CD's).

- I encountered a slightly unstable writing behavior when writing
  CDs with a lot of tracks. (Audio or Mixed-Mode). After I upgraded
  the firmware of my writer, it worked perfectly. ALWAYS use
  the simulation-write mode to check out whether your writer <-> SCSI 
  controller combination works stable.
  (You can also experiment with the SCSI-Setup in your SCSI-Bios...
   disabling disconnect may help.)

- If cdwrite crashes while writing, the resulting CD is usually totally
  unreadable. 

- Mounting an ISO-Image was dangerous with old kernels, but if you use a 
  2.0+ kernel, you can do this. If you mastered a CD to a partition, 
  just mount this partition, if you created a image in a file, you 
  can use a loopback mount to mount it.

- When you read digital audio tracks of a CD, check the quality of the 
  sound-files before you write them. Many CD-ROMs I tested support
  digital access to the tracks, but the resulting quality is noisy or 
  "scattered".
  It is best to use your CD-Writer for audio read. They should all 
  perform perfectly.
 
- You can create your own audio tracks. Use the program "sox" (not 
  included) to convert any sound-format to the CDDA-Format. If you
  do that on a little-endian-machine like a 386/486/Pentium you have
  to reverse the byte order to big endian with the "-x" switch.
  Yamaha writers, on the other hand, want their data little-endian, omit
  the -x in this case.
 
  Example: To convert a file "sound.wav" (44.1kHz, 16-bit, Stereo) to
  CDDA do this:
     sox sound.wav -x sound.cdda

  Hint: After creating your own audio-tracks and copying them to the
    image directory, use the "Play Audio-Tracks"-Option to listen
    to your track. If it plays ok, you made everything right.
    (The audio-files must have a ".cdda"-extension to be recognized
     by X-CD-Roast)


12) Known Bugs
--------------

- When using a Yamaha-Writer and X-CD-Roast prompts for inserting
  a CD-Recordable, and you press "Ok" too fast (before the flashing
  leds on the writer go out) you get a error-message. Just wait long
  enough so that the writer can initialize the CD-R before pressing
  "Ok".

- Copying non-ISO9660 CDs is a little tricky. At the moment, I am 
  skipping the last two blocks of such a CD to ensure that I don't 
  reach an "unwritten" area, which can cause the kernel to crash.
  If you know a better way, I'd appreciate hearing from you.

- Sometimes the program freezes when trying to read from the CD-ROM or 
  writer when its tray is open. This looks like a hardware bug to me.
  If this happens, you have to restart the program.

- In some cases you can click on buttons, which should be "locked"  
  (when the watch mouse cursor is active). This is due the complex
  grabbing code in Tk and is a generally known problem. This behavior
  may be different in different Tk-versions.
 
- Some version combinations of Tcl/Tk/Tix behave strangely. If you
  have very weird menu-layouts, you should upgrade or downgrade 
  your Tcl/Tk versions. 
  I know that tcl-7.5b1/tk-4.1b1/tix-4.0.3 do not work very well.
  On the other hand, tcl-7.5a2/tk-4.1a2/tix-4.0.3 are ok.

- When you press on "cancel" while reading or verifying an image, you 
  have to wait some seconds until the button responds. This is because
  the program waits until the working process terminated.


13) Frequently Asked Questions and Problem-solver
--------------------------------------------------

Q: I am using the predecessor of this program, "cdwtools-0.93", what
   is new with X-CD-Roast?

A: Really new is the much easier to use X-Interface, the automatic
   SCSI setup, better audio-track control and a log facility.

-

Q: Why do you only support SCSI-Hardware?

A: All SCSI-Hardware can be accessed in the same way, this is easier
   to code and avoids problems. IDE harddrive and non-SCSI CD-ROM
   support is in the work, and will be available in a future version.

-

Q: Is it safe to burn CDs under X?

A: Any 486 should be fast enough to handle this, but if you are in doubt
   try simulated writes to check if errors occur.

- 

Q: What about Multisession-support?

A: I am just supplying a frontend for existing programs like cdwrite-2.1
   and mkisofs-1.05. As long this programs does not support multisession,
   I can't either. But multisession is in the works, and when it is ready,
   I will (hopefully) release a new version supporting it.

-

Q: Hey, my backspace or delete key doesn't work in entry-fields.
   Is this a bug?

A: No, this is not a bug, it is just an incorrect key mapping in X11.
   You can fix it by putting this line in your .xinitrc (or if you have
   an Xmodmap-file, by changing the corresponding line.)

	xmodmap -e "keycode 22 = BackSpace"
 
-

Q: I fail to compile X-CD-Roast, all I get are error-messages.

A: You have probably a kernel that is too old. Install 1.99.6 or 
   above.

-

Q: X-CD-Roast failed to detect any of my SCSI-Hardware, what can I do?

A: Check if you compiled generic SCSI support in the kernel, and if 
   the generic devices exist. To create the generic devices run 

	./MAKEDEV.sg

   in the xcdroast-0.95c directory.

-

Q: I think I found a bug, what should I do?

A: Before you send me a bug-report, check to see whether I mentioned this 
   behavior somewhere in the README file. Then check if all your software 
   and hardware meet the requirements listed in the requirement section of
   the documentation.
   Also check to see whether there is a new version of this program is 
   available, look at the primary site: 

     http://www.fh-muenchen.de/
     /home/ze/rz/services/projects/xcdroast/e_overview.html  

   Ok, you've done all this and the error persist. 
   Supply me with the following information:
   - Your kernel version.
   - Versions of Tcl/Tk/Tix. (Startup tixwish and enter:
        echo $tcl_patchLevel; echo $tk_patchLevel; echo $tix_patchLevel )
     (Alternativly you can send me the output of the supplied "syscheck"
      program)

   - A copy of your xcdroast.conf-file. (If you dont have one, mail me
     the list of your scsi-devices)
   - An exact description of the error, what you have done and what
     happened. (If a error-window with a stack-trace button pops up, mail
     me the stack trace too. Older versions of Tk output the 
     stack trace in the xterm where you started the program.)

   
14) Credits
-----------

Thanks go to:

- The FH-Munich: For supplying me the hardware and time.	
	       	 And especially Andreas Boeck of the FHM Computer Center
	 	 and Prof. Dr. Stanek supporting the project and their 
		 helpful advice on numerous design questions.
		 Thanks also to Prof. Dr. Russell Block for reviewing
         	 this README file, and correcting a lot of grammatically
		 adventures.	

- Authors of cdwrite: Adam Richter <adam@yggdrasil.com> 
                      H. Peter Anvin <hpa@storm.net>
                      and the others mentioned in the cdwrite manpage
		      David Gates for Sony-Support.

- Author of cdda2wav: Heiko Eissfeldt <heiko@colossus.escape.de>

- Author of mkisofs: Eric Youngdale and Yggdrasil Computing

- Author of fdisk3.04: Andries E. Brouwer

- Authors of Tcl/Tk: John Ousterhout and many others.

- Author of Tix: Ioi Kim Lam 

- Bill Chimiak <chim@bgsm.edu> for converting this README to HTML.


15) Supported CD-Writers 
------------------------

These CD-Writers are known to work with this Version of X-CD-Roast.
A lot more may work, but you have to try yourself.

Philips CDD 521
Philips CDD 522
Philips CDD 2000	
Philips CDD 2600 	(Audio-Read not working 100% yet...)
			- Note: If your Writer aborts after approx. 500 MB
			  written you got a defect model -> return it!!!
Kodak CDD 521
Grundig CDR 100 IPW 	(use Philips-Mode)

Yamaha CDR/CDE 100
Yamaha CDR/CDE 102
HP 4020i (C4323/C4325)
HP 6020i
Plasmon 4220 		(use Philips-Mode)

Sony CDU-920S 		(Dummy-Mode may not work)
Sony CDU-940S		(Dummy-Mode may not work)
Ricoh RS-1420C 		(use HP-Mode, Dummy-mode reported not to work)

Turtle Beach CD Master II	(use Yamaha-Mode)


These Writers known NOT to work yet:

All JVC 
All Pinnacle
IDE-Mitsumi-Writers
Yamaha CDR 400


02.03.97 Thomas Niederreiter <tn@mailserv.rz.fh-muenchen.de>


