


tkerror(n)             Tk Built-In Commands            tkerror(n)


NAME
       tkerror - Command invoked to process background errors

SYNOPSIS
       tkerror message


DESCRIPTION
       The  tkerror command doesn't exist as built-in part of Tk.
       Instead, individual applications or  users  can  define  a
       tkerror  command (e.g. as a Tcl procedure) if they wish to
       handle background errors.

       A background error is one that occurs in  a  command  that
       didn't originate with the application.  For example, if an
       error occurs while executing a command  specified  with  a
       bind of after command, then it is a background error.  For
       a non-background error, the error can simply  be  returned
       up through nested Tcl command evaluations until it reaches
       the top-level code in the application; then  the  applica-
       tion can report the error in whatever way it wishes.  When
       a background error occurs, the unwinding ends  in  the  Tk
       library  and  there is no obvious way for Tk to report the
       error.

       When Tk detects a background error, it  saves  information
       about the error and invokes the tkerror command later when
       Tk is idle.  Before  invoking  tkerror,  Tk  restores  the
       errorInfo  and  errorCode variables to their values at the
       time the error occurred, then it invokes tkerror with  the
       error  message  as its only argument.  Tk assumes that the
       application has implemented the tkerror command, and  that
       the  command  will  report  the  error in a way that makes
       sense for the application.   Tk  will  ignore  any  result
       returned by the tkerror command.

       If  another  Tcl  error  occurs within the tkerror command
       (for example, because no tkerror command has been defined)
       then  Tk  reports the error itself by writing a message to
       stderr.

       If several background errors accumulate before tkerror  is
       invoked  to process them, tkerror will be invoked once for
       each error, in the order they occurred.  However, if tker-
       ror  returns  with  a  break exception, then any remaining
       errors are skipped without calling tkerror.

       The Tk script library includes a default tkerror procedure
       that  posts  a dialog box containing the error message and
       offers the user a chance to  see  a  stack  trace  showing
       where the error occurred.






Tk                             4.0                              1





tkerror(n)             Tk Built-In Commands            tkerror(n)


KEYWORDS
       background error, reporting
