


tkvars(n)              Tk Built-In Commands             tkvars(n)


NAME
       tkvars - Variables used or set by Tk


DESCRIPTION
       The  following  Tcl variables are either set or used by Tk
       at various times in its execution:

       tk_library     This variable holds the name of a directory
                      containing a library of Tcl scripts related
                      to Tk.  These scripts include  an  initial-
                      ization  file  that  is  normally processed
                      whenever a Tk application starts  up,  plus
                      other   files  containing  procedures  that
                      implement default  behaviors  for  widgets.
                      If the variable isn't already set when a Tk
                      application is created, Tk sets it from the
                      TK_LIBRARY  environment  variable,  if  one
                      exists, or else from a default  value  com-
                      piled  into  Tk.  The variable can be modi-
                      fied by an application to switch to a  dif-
                      ferent library.

       tk_patchLevel  Contains  a decimal integer giving the cur-
                      rent patch level for Tk.  The  patch  level
                      is  incremented  for  each  new  release or
                      patch, and it uniquely identifies an  offi-
                      cial version of Tk.

       tkPriv         This  variable  is an array containing sev-
                      eral pieces of information that are private
                      to  Tk.  The elements of tkPriv are used by
                      Tk library procedures and default bindings.
                      They  should  not  be  accessed by any code
                      outside Tk.

       tk_strictMotif This variable is set to  zero  by  default.
                      If  an  application sets it to one, then Tk
                      attempts to adhere as closely  as  possible
                      to   Motif  look-and-feel  standards.   For
                      example, active elements  such  as  buttons
                      and scrollbar sliders will not change color
                      when the pointer passes over them.

       tk_version     Tk sets this variable  in  the  interpreter
                      for  each  application.  The variable holds
                      the  current  version  number  of  the   Tk
                      library in the form major.minor.  Major and
                      minor are integers.  The major version num-
                      ber   increases  in  any  Tk  release  that
                      includes changes that are not backward com-
                      patible (i.e. whenever existing Tk applica-
                      tions and scripts may  have  to  change  to
                      work  with  the  new  release).   The minor



Tk                             4.0                              1





tkvars(n)              Tk Built-In Commands             tkvars(n)


                      version  number  increases  with  each  new
                      release  of  Tk,  except  that it resets to
                      zero  whenever  the  major  version  number
                      changes.


KEYWORDS
       variables, version
