Channel windows
---------------

FOr details of various key and mouse bindings see the help entry on Bindings.

You can swap the meaning of Return and your action keystroke by selecting
the Actions item on the Mode menu for that channel. This makes Return send
everything as an action.

You can add your own bindings for keys as well.


The Mode menu allows you to set various modes on the channel. Some of
them are Zircon features others are IRC modes. Jump says whether or
not to jump forward if you scrolled back and new input arrives. Quiet
turns off the bell and Draw turns off the sketch pad.

The Channel Menu allows you to carry out channel operations on the
current channel. This includes the use of the Sketch Pad facility
which allows you to send simple drawings to other Zircon users. Please
do not use this in channels where there are other users who do not
have Zircon. The Draw feature can be turned off on a per channel basis
and also by the setting of the trust(draw) variable which contains a
list of nick patterns for people from whom you will accept drawings.

The Action menu allows you to have some ready made actions.

The Names menu has a mneu of all the users on the channel with
pull-right menus with other features on them.

Clear clears the channel text area. Shift-Clear clears the window and
the channel history buffer.

To leave a channel just click on the Leave button. Shift-Leave will
cause you to quit Zircon and Control-Leave will let you leave the
channel but will bring up a monitor window that shows the visible
users on the channel.

To send a private message to a user on a channel, press on the button
with their name on it to the right of the channel window and a menu
will appear.  Select Msg from this menu and a new window will be
created. This is a conversation window and is used exactly like a
channel window, except that communication is only with the named user.
Clicking on Leave will dismiss the window. You can also get a conversation
window by Shift-double clicking on any line of text sent by the user to
the channel. If a users name appears in a window, select the name and
type Meta-M to send a message to that user. You can send a single line
message to user from a channel window by typing a line of the format :

nick message text

and terminating it with Meta-Q. This will be sent to the nick without
opening a conversation window. You can also achieve this by typing a
/msg command and terminating it with Meta-Return.

To send a message to a user *not* on a channel with you use the Users
menu on the control panel or use the Meta-M shortcut above.

To the left of the text area is a panel with buttons for all the users
that are currently on the channel. Each button has a menu of
operations that you can perform for that user. Your button is always
at the top of the list. When a netsplit is detected the button for the
affected user will be greyed out and restored when the split heals.
This menu can be turned on and off from the Names menu.

The Topic is displayed at the top of the window. It can be set either
by typing in the field and hitting return or else by chosing a topic
from the menu that hangs of the Topic button. If you are not allowed
to set the topic the Topic button will be greyed out and you will not
be able to type in the entry. You can enter a topic using the New item
on the menu.
