This is my port of the c2man patchlevel 33 for the Amiga.

I added a Commodore AutoDoc output format backend. So you can use this outputs
with your favorite autodoc formatting utility. Read the c2man manual for
getting started with c2man. If you have groff, a LaTeX package or makeinfo
installed you can also use c2man for generating these output formats. I have
tested the nroff format with the groff port 1.07.

I have compiled c2man with SAS-C V6.51 with the STACKCHECK option ON , because
c2man requires more than the standard 4096 bytes. If you don't like this
recompile it , but you must have bison/yacc and flex/lex ! A stack of 10000
bytes seems enough .

For this port I used the popen implementation from the AmiTCP 4.0 demo package.
The original version was written by Rick Schaeffer <ricks@isc-br.isc-br.com> and
by Jarno Rajahalme from the AmiTCP/IP Group <Jarno.Rajahalme@hut.fi>.

You need also a preprocessor, which supports non-stripping of comments ! I used
the cpp from the AmiTCP 4.0 demo package, but you can also use the cpp from gcc
or gcc with "gcc -E -C".

The following option is added in the Amiga port :

-T a : select autodoc output format. This output format is default !

The following command shows, how you can use the c2man program (Note: this
implies, that you have installed the Pipe package) :

c2man -o- your_c_source.c

c2man supports grouping of source files. This means if two source files are
passed on the command line, each function in this files links to each other.
But if you have two or more groups of such files you can use the following
command :

c2man -o- csource1.c csource2.c || c2man -o- anothercsource.c | sortad to test.doc

This functions with the Pipe1_5.lha package, which uses the '||' to concate outputs.

sortad is used to put all docs together and to generate the sorted list of contents.

sortad is copyrighted by Stefan Ruppert, but is freely distributable with c2man !

Stefan Ruppert
Windthorststra_e 5
65439 Flvrsheim am Main
GERMANY

EMail: ruppert@vs3.informatik.fh-wiesbaden.de

