
We need some documentation on your proposed use of a port number.

This can be in the form of a one to two page description, article, or
manual.  

We are looking for a technical description of how your application
interacts with TCP/IP and/or UDP/IP..

We need at least the following information, which is for our internal
use, only.

1)  What is the protocol between the user machine and the server
    machine?

2)  What message formats, types, op codes, sequences are used?

3)  What functions are performed by this protocol?

4)  Is broadcast or multicast used?  If so, how and what for?

5) Do you want a well-known assigned system port in the range 0-1023,
   or a registered user port in the range 1024-65535 ?

6)  What short name (14 character maximum) do you want associated with
    this port number?

We require a enough detail to understand how your application uses the
network.  At a minimum this will be a full page of text.  Once we have
the above information in hand, and understand it, we can assign a port
number.

Please note that a particular application or service should be able to
operate with only one well-known assigned system port or one
registered user port number.  For applications or services that offer
multiple functions it is usually possible to use one port as a
multiplexor or rendezvous service.  That is, the clients always
initiate the use of a service by contacting the rendezvous port and
indicating in their first message which function is needed.  The
rendezvous service then either (A) creates (forks, spawns) a process
to perform that function and passes the connection to it; or (B)
dynamically selects a (high-numbered) port and starts a process to
perform the function listening on that port and sends a message back
to the client telling it to call the new process on that port.

We are willing to sign a non-disclosure agreement your product is
considered "proprietary".  Processing the non-disclosure agreement
will take much longer (a month or more) than making the actual
assignment (a week or less).

Please return the completed application to "iana@isi.edu".

