See also: BUGS

If you have some free time you might try hacking something on this list.

pending : Make configuration options in "termnet" such as the use_term variable

pending : Fix timeouts!!! Something is going badly wrong with them. Timeout
          should maybe be dependent on number of outstanding packets??

pending : Write a ping to generate every character.

pending : A mechanism for handling hangup. what it would involve.
           1) Term going into background on a HUP or dropped carrier,
              not exiting.
           2) When term starts up, it should check for a backgrounded term to
              foreground. 
           3) There has to be a supervisor program that will watch the modem
              line.  Presumably, the supervisor program can be started by
              term as needed.

pending : trsh sets a TERMSERVER for it's new shells.

pending : fix tredir to take a config file.

pending : Get PC-NFS mounts working over term.

pending : Pass client information cross exec() commands.

pending : Add term routing to connect multiple servers.  i.e.
	If domainname == via.term.none then hostname specifies the name
	of the server to use.  

Find an easy way to share a term connection between multiple machines

pending : Linecheck should also check maximum packet size, stopbits, etc.

pending : Integrate linecheck into term_main.c

sort of done : Add an install option for making a termified libc under OS's where
          this seems possible.
            1) libc.so.4 will be copied to libt.so.4.
            2) Term routines will be inserted into libt.so.4 so that libc
               sources are not needed.
            3) A program "termify" will convert the library reference to
               libt.so.4 from libc.so.4 and set any "share" permissions
               needed on executable.
          This should work for both root and non-root users.  However, it won't
	  work in user-shared mode without some modifications to ld.so.  Other
          than this small restriction, "termify"'ing a program should be 
          equivalent to recompiling the source with termnet.

done : Find and fix whatever is causing tdownload to terminate early.
done : Fix linecheck to be asymmetric. Also to check chars < 32.
done : Skip bad pty slaves.
done : Fix seven bit support
done : Xconn needs to read DISPLAY properly. 
done : Put in SGI patches. 
done : Write a credits file. 
done : X-windows is apparently dying again. Don't know why. Have to find out.
done : upload occasionally has files go missing. Look into it.
done : wait3 instead of waitpid. 
done : Fix rsystem. Term hangs if you run it without an argument. 
done : Catch signals and do a graceful clean-up. 
done : Fix C_PORT and C_SOCKET so that errors get caught properly instead of just
       hanging. Fix C_PTYEXEC as well. 
done : Fix #include <termios.h>.Only be done if we are really using termios
done : Add an 'ignore' array, and clean-up the escape array. Add ranges maybe??
done : Fix #include <stdlib.h> unistd, and malloc.h. Make a generic #define to turn
       them off.
done : Fix byte-order for C_PORT.
done : trsh going into a heavy load will hang (race condition in pty.c)
	Fix upload to
done :	a) use one arg. 
done :	b) Do resumption! Resume upload a file. 
done :	c) maybe write a download?? : sort of 
done : Cut out all the 2400 baud limiters
done : Fix rsh to exit properly when shell exits. Clean up exit messages.
done : NNIGN. This will basically involve detecting and passing on read/write's of
       zero length.
done : Check out the Sun implementation. It still doesn't work reliably.

done : Fix terminal handling when doing remote-->linux rsh.

done : Put in maximum packet size as a command line option.  As a termrc option.

done : Fix possible race condition with a client starting up at both ends
       at the same time. (they will both get the same client number. Bad.)

done : Write a tdownload.

done : Write a getting-started guide for newbies.

done : Write an FAQ list too!!! Could cull Mail/received for this.

done : Preserving time/date stamping with upload?

done : Add a mechanism for propagating environment variables.

done : trsh should pass the 'TERM' env variable.

done : Write a UDP redirector for those crazy sods that want to mount an NFS
       partition over term.. 

done : relocate all termnet.c errors to the same routine for easy 
          activation/deactivation and eventual clean-up.

done : Make a variable to control term/tcp use.  i.e.
          - TERM only
          - tcp only
          - quick and dirty check for TERM
          - careful test for TERM

done : Get inetd to work, with socket address passing

done : Add checksums to tupload and tdownload

scrapped : Get the NFS mounts working now.

